B2 First
Handbook for teachers
for exams

-- 1 of 90 --



-- 2 of 90 --

Make the most of
your handbook
The best way to get the most from your handbook is to use the digital version. The digital version is
updated more regularly.
The digital version contains links which take you straight to related pages if you want to find out more. For example, you can
read about Part 1 of the Reading and Use of English paper in the Tasks section, then click on the link to take you straight to a
sample Part 1 task. There are also links which take you to useful websites and resources.
Tasks
The Tasks pages give information about the exam format
and what is tested in each part of the paper.
Preparing learners
The Preparing learners pages give information and advice
about what teachers can do to prepare their learners for
the exam. There are also links to useful websites to find
additional materials. You’ll find suggested exam strategies
to help learners perform to the best of their ability on the
day.
Advice by task
The Advice by task sections include advice and tips on how
to prepare for each task, as well as example screenshots
from the digital sample tests. To access the complete Digital
Exam, please go to camengli.sh/3YMtIM6
Sample paper and assessment
The Sample paper and assessment section includes two
sample papers for each of the four components as well
as answer keys for the Reading and Use of English and
Listening components. For the Writing and Speaking papers
there is information about the assessment criteria, and for
Writing there are example answers for you to refer to or use
with your learners.
02 	About Cambridge
03 	B2 First – an overview
04 	Exam support
05 	About the exam
Paper 1: Reading and Use of English
07 	Tasks
08 	Preparing learners
10 	Advice by task
18 	Sample paper and assessment
Paper 2: Writing
26 	Tasks
27 	Preparing learners
29 	Advice by task
31 	Sample paper and assessment
Paper 3: Listening
50 	Tasks
51 	Preparing learners
52 	Advice by task
56 	Sample paper and assessment
Paper 4: Speaking
70 	Tasks
71 	Preparing learners
72 	Advice by task
76 	Sample paper and assessment
82 	Speaking assessment glossary of terms
85 	Glossary
1

-- 3 of 90 --

About Cambridge
To learn English is to enjoy and experience a language that
opens up opportunities across the world.
Together with teachers and our partners, we’re here to
engage and inspire millions of people throughout their
entire learning journey. We help them confidently prove
their skills to the world.
We believe that language is at the heart of being human,
and English can unlock a lifetime of experiences. We help
individuals everywhere connect, communicate and come
closer together.
Where your world grows.
• 	5.5 million assessments taken every year
• 	Accepted by over 25,000 organisations worldwide
• 	2,800 exam centres in 130 countries
• 	Over 50,000 preparation centres
Cambridge English
Qualifications Digital
Discover an enhanced exam
experience with flexible test dates
and faster results.
cambridgeenglish.org/qualifications-digital
Cambridge English
Qualifications Digital
Discover an enhanced exam
experience with flexible test dates
and faster results.
cambridgeenglish.org/qualifications-digital
Cambridge English Qualifications are in-depth exams that
make learning English enjoyable, effective and rewarding.
Our unique approach encourages continuous progression
with a clear path to improving language skills. Each of our
qualifications focuses on a level of the Common European
Framework of Reference (CEFR), enabling learners to
develop and build speaking, writing, reading and listening
skills.
Our qualifications are based on research into effective
teaching and learning. They motivate people of all ages
and abilities to learn English and develop practical skills for
the real world.
We have Cambridge English Qualifications for:
• 	Schools
• 	General and higher education
Whether learners are planning to live, work or study in their
own country or abroad, our qualifications prove they have
the English language skills to succeed.
To find out more about Cambridge English Qualifications
and the CEFR, go to cambridgeenglish.org/cefr
2

-- 4 of 90 --

B2 First – an overview
B2 First was originally offered in 1939 and is a qualification
at upper-intermediate level that is officially recognised by
universities, employers and governments around the world.
It follows on as a progression from B1 Preliminary.
Exam formats
B2 First can be taken as either a digital or paper-based
exam.
Who is the exam for?
B2 First is aimed at learners who need to show they can:
• 	start working in an English-speaking environment
• 	study at an upper-intermediate level, such as
foundation or pathway courses
• 	live independently in an English-speaking country.
Who recognises the exam?
The B2 First certificate is recognised around the world as
proof of upper-intermediate level English skills for industrial,
administrative and service-based employment. It is also
accepted by a wide range of educational institutions for
study purposes.
Cambridge English Qualifications are accepted and
trusted by thousands of organisations worldwide. For more
information about recognition go to cambridgeenglish.
org/recognition
What level is the exam?
B2 First is targeted at Level B2 on the CEFR. Achieving a
certificate at this upper-intermediate level proves that
a candidate is becoming skilled in English and now has
practical language skills for everyday written and spoken
situations.
Statements of Results
The Statement of Results shows the candidate’s:
• 	score on the Cambridge English Scale for their
performance in each of the four skills and Use of
English
• 	score on the Cambridge English Scale for their
overall performance in the exam. This overall score is
the average of the separate scores given for each of
the four skills and Use of English
• 	grade – this is based on the candidate’s overall score
• 	level on the CEFR – this is also based on the overall
score.
Certificates
The certificate shows the candidate’s:
• 	score on the Cambridge English Scale for each of the
four skills and Use of English
• 	overall score on the Cambridge English Scale
• 	grade
• 	level on the CEFR
• 	level on the UK National Qualifications Framework
(NQF).
Special requirements
Cambridge English Qualifications are designed to be
fair to all test takers. For more information about special
circumstances, go to cambridgeenglish.org/help/special-
requirements/
B2 First – an overview 	3

-- 5 of 90 --

Exam support
Official Cambridge English Qualification
preparation materials
To support teachers and help learners prepare for their
exams, we have developed a range of official support
materials including coursebooks and practice tests. These
official materials are available in both digital and print
formats.
cambridgeenglish.org/exam-preparation
Find our digital and paper-based sample papers on the B2
First preparation page.
Support for teachers
The exam preparation pages for each level provide user-
friendly, free resources for all teachers preparing for our
exams. They include:
General information – handbooks for teachers,
sample papers.
Detailed exam information – format, timing, number of
questions, task types, mark scheme of each paper.
Exam tutorial videos – a step-by-step guide to
completing the digital exams.
Teaching tips for the Cambridge English Qualifications
Digital – a booklet with teaching tips to help you prepare
students for the Cambridge English Qualifications Digital.
Cambridge English Qualifications Digital FAQs – here
you can find answers to the most important questions
about Cambridge English Qualifications Digital.
Advice for teachers – developing students’ skills and
preparing them for the exam.
Downloadable lessons – a lesson for every part of
every paper.
Teaching qualifications – a comprehensive range of
qualifications for new teachers and career development
for more experienced teachers.
Webinars – a wide range of exam-specific webinars for
both new and experienced teachers.
Teacher development – resources to support teachers
in their Continuing Professional Development.
camengli.sh/3YMtIM6
Facebook for teachers
Teachers can join our community on Facebook for free
resources, activities and tips to help prepare learners for
Cambridge English Qualifications.
facebook.com/CambridgeEnglishTeaching
Free support for candidates
We provide learners with a wealth of exam resources and
preparation materials throughout our website, including
exam advice, sample papers, candidate guides, games and
online learning resources.
cambridgeenglish.org/learning-english
Facebook for learners
Learners joining our lively Facebook community can
get tips, take part in quizzes and talk to other English
language learners and also find support and preparation
for students taking the digital test.
facebook.com/CambridgeEnglish
Registering candidates for an exam
Exam entries must be made through an authorised
Cambridge English examination centre.
Centre staff have all the latest information about our
exams, and can provide you with:
• 	details of entry procedures
• 	copies of the exam regulations
• 	exam dates
• 	current fees
• 	more information about B2 First and other
Cambridge English Qualifications.
We have more than 2,800 centres in over 130 countries
– all are required to meet our high standards of exam
administration, integrity, security and customer service.
Find your nearest centre at cambridgeenglish.org/
centresearch
Further information
If your local authorised exam centre is unable to answer
your question, please contact our helpdesk:
cambridgeenglish.org/help
4

-- 6 of 90 --

About the exam
B2 First is a rigorous and thorough test of English at Level
B2. It covers all four language skills – reading, writing,
listening and speaking – and includes a fifth element
focusing on the candidate’s understanding of the structure
of the language.
A thorough test of all areas of language
ability
There are four papers: Reading and Use of English, Writing,
Listening and Speaking. The overall performance is
calculated by averaging the scores achieved in Reading,
Writing, Listening, Speaking and Use of English. The
weighting of each of the four skills and Use of English is
equal.
Detailed information on each test paper is provided later
in this handbook but the overall focus of each test is as
follows:
Reading and Use of English: 1 hour 15 minutes
Candidates need to be able to understand texts from
publications such as fiction and non-fiction books,
journals, newspapers and magazines.
Writing: 1 hour 20 minutes
Candidates have to show that they can produce two
different pieces of writing: a compulsory essay in Part 1,
and one from a choice of three tasks in Part 2.
Listening: 40 minutes (approximately)
Candidates need to show they can understand the
meaning of a range of spoken material, including
lectures, radio broadcasts, speeches and talks.
Speaking: 14 minutes per pair of candidates, and 20
minutes per group of three candidates
Candidates take the Speaking test with another
candidate or in a group of three, and are tested on
their ability to take part in different types of interaction:
with the examiner, with the other candidate and by
themselves.
Each of the four test components contributes to a profile
which defines the candidates’ overall communicative
language ability at this level.
Marks and results
B2 First gives detailed, meaningful results.
OVERALL
LENGTH
NUMBER
OF TASKS/
PARTS
NUMBER
OF ITEMS
B2 First
Reading
and Use
of English
1 hour 15 mins 	7 	52
Writing 	1 hour 20 mins 	2 	2
Listening 	approx 40 mins 	4 	30
Speaking 	14 or 20 mins 	4 	–
TOTAL approx
3 hours 29 mins
All candidates receive a Statement of Results. Candidates
whose performance ranges between CEFR Levels B1 and C1
(Cambridge English Scale scores of 140–190) also receive a
certificate.
Grade A: Cambridge English Scale scores of 180–190
Candidates sometimes show ability beyond Level B2. If
a candidate achieves a Grade A in their exam, they will
receive the B2 First Certificate in English stating that they
demonstrated ability at Level C1.
Grade B and Grade C: Cambridge English Scale scores
of 160–179
If a candidate achieves Grade B or C in their exam, they
will be awarded the B2 First Certificate in English at Level
B2.
CEFR Level B1: Cambridge English Scale scores of 140–
159
If a candidate’s performance is below Level B2, but falls
within Level B1, they will receive a Cambridge English
certificate stating that they demonstrated ability at
Level B1.
Digital vs paper-based:
Same task, different formats
Digital exam
Paper-based
exam
About the exam 	5

-- 7 of 90 --

Can Do summary
What can candidates do at Level B2?
The Association of Language Testers in Europe (ALTE) has researched what language learners can typically do at each CEFR
level. They have described each level of ability using Can Do statements, with examples taken from everyday life. Cambridge
English, as one of the founding members of ALTE, uses this framework to ensure its exams reflect real-life language skills.
TYPICAL
ABILITIES READING AND WRITING 	LISTENING AND SPEAKING
Overall
general
ability
CAN scan texts for relevant information.
CAN make notes while someone is talking, or write a
letter or email including non-standard requests.
CAN follow a talk on a familiar topic.
CAN keep up a conversation on a fairly wide
range of topics.
Social and
Tourist
CAN read the media for information quickly and with
good understanding.
CAN express opinions and give reasons.
CAN ask for clarification and further
information, and is likely to understand the
answer.
CAN keep up a conversation on a fairly wide
range of topics.
Work
CAN understand the general meaning of non-routine
letters and emails and understand most of the content.
CAN write a simple report of a factual nature and
begin to evaluate, advise, etc.
CAN ask for factual information and
understand the answer.
CAN express own opinion, and express
arguments to a limited extent.
Study
CAN make simple notes that are of reasonable use
for essay or revision purposes, capturing the most
important points.
CAN present arguments, using a limited range of
expression (vocabulary, grammatical structures).
CAN answer predictable or factual questions.
CAN check that all instructions are understood.
6

-- 8 of 90 --

Reading and Use of English
Paper 1:
Reading and Use of English tasks
1 hour 15 mins
The paper contains seven parts .The Reading section consists of Parts 1,5,6 and 7 of the paper. The Use of English section
consists of Parts 2,3 and 4.
PART NUMBER OF
QUESTIONS
NUMBER
OF MARKS TASK TYPES 	FOCUS 	FORMAT
1 	8 	8 Multiple
choice cloze
The main focus is on
vocabulary, e.g. idioms,
collocations, fixed phrases,
complementation, phrasal
verbs, semantic precision.
A modified cloze test containing
eight gaps. There are 4-option
multiple-choice items for each
gap.
2 	8 	8 Open cloze
The main focus is on
awareness and control of
grammar with some focus
on vocabulary.
A modified cloze test containing
eight gaps.
3 	8 	8 Word
formation
The main focus is on
vocabulary, in particular
the use of affixation,
internal changes and
compounding
in word formation.
A text containing eight gaps.
Each gap corresponds to a word.
The stem of the missing word is
given beside the text and must
be changed to form the missing
word.
4 	6 	12 Key word
transformation
Grammar, vocabulary,
collocation.
Six separate items, each with
a lead-in sentence and a
gapped second sentence to be
completed in two to five words,
one of which is a given ‘key’ word.
5 	6 	12 Multiple
choice
Detail, opinion, attitude,
tone, purpose, main
idea, gist, meaning from
context, implication, text
organisation features
(exemplification, reference).
A text followed by six 4-option
multiple-choice questions.
6 	6 	12 Gapped text Cohesion, coherence, text
structure.
A text from which sentences
have been removed and placed
in jumbled order after the
text. Candidates must decide
from which part of the text the
sentences have been removed.
7 	10 	10 Multiple
matching
Detail, opinion, specific
information, implication.
A text or several short texts,
preceded by multiple-matching
questions. Candidates must
match a prompt to elements in
the text.
TOTAL 52 	70
7
Paper 1
Reading and Use of English

-- 9 of 90 --

Tips for preparing learners for the Reading and Use of English paper
 Your students should be encouraged to read a wide
range of texts both in class and at home so that they
build up a broad vocabulary and become familiar
with the many uses of different structures. This should
enable them to deal with a range of lexical items and
grammatical structures in a variety of text types.
Classroom reading can include a range of reading
texts from coursebooks and reading-skills books at
this level, as well as articles online from newspapers
and magazines on topics of interest. As part of the
homework assignments, a weekly reading scheme
could be started. Your students could be asked to
provide verbal or written reviews of the texts they
have read. These could include graded readers,
unabridged short stories or novels, non-fiction,
newspaper or magazine articles, etc. Where possible,
encourage your students to follow up on their hobbies
and interests by reading about sport, cars, fashion,
etc. in English in magazines or online. Reading up
about hobbies etc. could also lead to written articles
for a class project, or short talks. Students should
be encouraged to read both online and in print
depending on which version of the exam they are
doing.
 When studying for the exam, it will be useful for your
students to refer to dictionaries and grammar books.
However, they should also develop strategies for
operating independently of reference books by, for
example, guessing the meaning of unknown words
from the context, as they are not permitted to take
dictionaries into the exam with them.
 Students should develop an efficient personal system
for recording the new vocabulary they learn. They
should record as much detail as possible.
 Encourage your students to plan their time carefully
and not spend too long on any one part of the test.
They should try to make sure that they have a few
minutes at the end of the test to check through their
answers. They can do the various parts of the test in
any order so should decide the most suitable order
for them.
 	Where texts have a title, encourage your students to
pay attention to it as it will indicate the main theme of
the text.
 	Encourage your students to read through each text
carefully before beginning to answer the questions so
that they have a clear idea of what it is about.
 In Parts 2 and 4, there may be more than one
permissible answer for a question. However, students
should only give one answer for each question. If they
give two answers, and one of them is incorrect, they
will not be given a mark. If they want to change an
answer, they should delete it or rub it out.
 Where there are examples, students should refer to
them to help them understand what they have to do.
Remind them that in the paper-based exam they must
not write the answer to the example on their answer
sheet.
 	Make your students aware that correct spelling is
essential in Parts 2, 3 and 4.
 With coursebook texts, encourage your students to
focus on any pre-reading questions. These stimulate
interest in the topic covered by the text and train your
students in valuable prediction techniques.
 Some coursebooks include questions which are to
be answered while reading a text. These will help
your students to work their way through the text and
interpret the meaning of more complex passages.
The questions will also involve them in using different
reading strategies. It is useful to encourage your
students to be aware of alternative ways of dealing
with texts so they can decide which ones suit them
best.
 Make sure your students are familiar with the
format of the tasks. Train them to read carefully the
instructions on the front page of the question paper
and at the start of each task. The instructions give
a brief context for each text and remind candidates
what they have to do.
 When your students are familiar with the different
task types, discuss with them which part(s) take
them longer to complete. Following this discussion,
you could work out with them possible timings for
each task. Remind them that each task is worth
approximately equal marks. The outcome of the
discussion will also help you to decide which task
types to concentrate on in future classes and where
assistance is needed with developing particular
reading skills.
8

-- 10 of 90 --

Completing the digital test
(digital test only)
• 	All answers are typed directly onto the computer.
• 	Candidates may take pens and pencils and water
in a clear, see-through bottle into the exam room,
but nothing else (including bags and anything
electronic).
• 	Candidates should listen carefully to the instructions
which the invigilator gives and follow the instructions
on the computer screen.
• 	There is a timer on the screen which tells candidates
how much time they have left.
• 	Candidates may make notes on paper during the
exam. They must leave these notes on their desk at
the end of the exam.
• 	Sometimes candidates may decide that the answer
they have written is wrong and wish to change it. This
can easily be done in all parts of the test by clicking
on a different option or by deleting and rewriting the
answer.
• 	Give your students practice in in using the digital
platform so they are familiar with the different
features before exam day. The questions they have
answered or left are indicated at the bottom of the
screen so they can easily go back and complete
unanswered questions.
Completing the answer sheet
(paper-based test only)
• 	All answers must go on an answer sheet.
• 	Candidates should use a pencil to complete the
answer sheet.
• 	No additional time is allowed for completing the
answer sheet.
• 	Students can do the various parts of the test in any
order. However, it may be better to do them in the
order of the question paper. This can help to avoid
the possibility of putting answers in the wrong
sections of the answer sheet.
• 	For the Reading and Use of English component,
candidates shade a lozenge on the answer sheet to
show their answer for Parts 1, 5, 6 and 7 and write
their answers on the correct part of the answer
sheet for Parts 2, 3, and 4.
• 	Sometimes candidates may decide that the answer
they have written is wrong and wish to change it.
If this happens in Parts 1, 5, 6 or 7, they will need
to rub out the mark they have made and mark a
different lozenge. In Parts 2, 3 and 4, they should
clearly rub out the word or words and replace them.
They should not try altering the word itself as this
will make it unclear. They should not put the word in
brackets as it will appear to be an alternative.
• 	Remind your students that handwriting should be
clear so that it can be read easily by the markers.
• 	Give your students practice in completing the answer
sheet. When writing their answers on the answer
sheet, they must be careful to make sure that they
put the answer by the appropriate question number.
This is especially important if they leave some
questions unanswered. They must also be sure to
write in capital letters in Parts 2, 3 and 4.
• 	Show your students how to fill in the answer sheet
and give them practice in doing this in a timed
exercise. Explain to them that they can transfer their
answers after each task or at the end of the paper.
Reading and Use of English Preparing learners 	9
Paper 1

-- 11 of 90 --

Advice by task
This section shows example screenshots from the B2 First Digital exam. To access the complete digital
sample test, please scan the QR code, or go to camengli.sh/3YMtIM6
Reading and Use of English Part 1
THE TASK
f Part 1 consists of a text in which there are eight gaps. Candidates have to choose which one of the four words or
phrases in the set fills the gap correctly.
f Candidates are required to draw on their lexical knowledge and understanding of the text in order to fill the gaps. Some
questions test at a phrasal level, such as collocations and set phrases. Other questions test meaning at sentence level
or beyond, with more processing of the text required. A lexico-grammatical element may be involved, such as when
candidates have to choose the option which fits correctly with a following preposition or verb form.
HOW TO APPROACH THE TASK
f Remind your students that different types of words are tested in this part. Sometimes it is necessary to choose between
words with a similar meaning, e.g. choosing leaking rather than spilling, pouring or flowing to fill the gap in The roof of
our tent was …. At other times it will be necessary not simply to know the meaning but also to know which word is correct
because of the preposition, adverb or verb form which follows, e.g. choosing interested rather than keen, enthusiastic or
eager to fill the gap in You may be … in applying for this job.
f Give your students practice in recognising the differences in meaning between similar words, e.g. cut and tear. They
should try to learn whole phrases as well as individual words in context, and they should be aware that knowing the
grammatical patterns and collocations of words is as important as knowing their meaning.
f This part of the paper also tests collocations, such as to pay attention to, and linking phrases such as even if. Phrasal
verbs are also tested here. They may be tested in three different ways: the whole of the phrasal verb, e.g. keep on, just
the verb itself, e.g. keep, or just the preposition or adverb which follows the verb, e.g. on. Thus, some questions test at a
phrasal level, while others test meaning at sentence level or beyond, with more processing of the text required.
f Remind your students to make sure the answer they choose fits into the sentence. They should not choose their answer
simply after reading the words which come before the gap; they need to read the words which follow as well. It is
sometimes the case that a preposition or adverb which follows a gap determines which of the options is correct.
f Get your students used to reading all the options for any question before deciding which one fills the gap correctly, and
remind them that they should never choose more than one option as the answer.
10

-- 12 of 90 --

Reading and Use of English Part 2
THE TASK
f Part 2 consists of a text in which there are eight gaps. Candidates are required to draw on their knowledge of the
structure of the language and understanding of the text in order to fill the gaps. In this part, as there are no sets of
words from which to choose the answers, candidates have to think of a word which will fill the gap correctly.
f The focus of the gapped words is either grammatical, such as articles, auxiliaries, prepositions, pronouns, verb tenses
and forms, or lexico-grammatical, such as phrasal verbs, linkers and words within fixed phrases. The answer will always
be a single word. In some cases, there may be more than one possible answer and this is allowed for in the mark scheme.
f The absence or misuse of punctuation is ignored, although spelling, as in all the Use of English parts of the paper, must
be correct.
HOW TO APPROACH THE TASK
f As in Part 1, candidates need to read the words which follow the gap as well as those which come before it. Tell your
students that they should make sure that if they are filling the gap with a verb, it agrees with its subject.
f Remind students to keep in mind a sense of the whole text.
f Make your students aware that they must use only one word to fill each of the gaps. They should never use
abbreviations (e.g. sthg for something), and (with the exception of can’t = cannot) they should not fill any of the gaps
with a contraction (e.g. didn’t, he’ll), as these count as two words.
Reading and Use of English Advice by task 	11
Paper 1

-- 13 of 90 --

Reading and Use of English Part 3
THE TASK
f Part 3 consists of a text containing eight gaps. Separated from the text, there is a stem word in capital letters. In the
digital test, this appears on the right of the screen. In the paper-based test, this appears at the end of some of the lines.
Candidates need to form an appropriate word from given stem words to fill each gap.
f The focus of this task is primarily lexical, though an understanding of structure is also required. It tests the candidates’
knowledge of how prefixes, suffixes, internal changes and compounds are used in forming words. Candidates may be
required to demonstrate understanding of the text beyond sentence level.
HOW TO APPROACH THE TASK
f Students should be made aware of the range of words which can be formed from the same stem word, e.g. compete,
competition, competitor, competitive, competitively, and the negative forms of these words e.g. uncompetitive. In the
examination, when they see the ‘stem word’ at the end of a line, they must not automatically write a related word which
they know well as their answer. They need to read the surrounding sentence to decide what the missing word is.
f Sometimes the missing word will need to be in the plural, and sometimes it will need to be in a negative form. The sense
of the text around the gap will help candidates decide if it is necessary to put the word in the plural or to make it
negative.
f Make your students aware that answers will not always need only prefixes or suffixes to be added to a word; sometimes
internal changes will need to be made (e.g. long to length).
f Remind your students that each stem word applies only to the gap with the same number, or in the paper-based exam,
the gap on the same line. They must not try to form a word from that stem word in any other line. In every case the stem
word will have to be changed.
12

-- 14 of 90 --

Reading and Use of English Part 4
THE TASK
f Part 4 consists of six questions. Each question contains three parts: a lead-in sentence, a key word, and a second
sentence of which only the beginning and end are given. Candidates have to fill the gap in the second sentence so that
the completed sentence is similar in meaning to the lead-in sentence. The gap must be filled with between two and five
words, one of which must be the key word. The key word must not be changed in any way.
f In this part of the test the focus is both lexical and grammatical and a range of structures is tested. The ability to express
a message in a different way shows flexibility and resource in the use of language.
f The mark scheme splits the answer into two parts and candidates gain one mark for each part which is correct.
HOW TO APPROACH THE TASK
f In preparing for this part of the test, give your students practice in paraphrasing. This might include rewriting sentences
from texts, saying things again ‘in other words’, as well as working on lexical synonyms and grammatical transformations.
In the examination, they must make sure that the answer makes the second sentence mean, as far as possible, the same
as the lead-in sentence.
f Remind your students that the answer must consist of two, three, four or five words. If candidates write more than five
words they will not be awarded the marks.
f Remind your students that they must use the key word in their answer and they must not change it in any way. If they do
not use it or if they alter it, they will not be awarded the marks.
f Make sure your students pay careful attention to any verb in the final part of the second sentence as it will often
indicate whether to use a singular or plural noun in the answer.
f Remind your students that when typing or writing their answers, they should not write the whole or part of the second
sentence; they should write the words that are needed to fill the gap, including the key word.
f When they are counting the words, students should remember that, as in Part 2, they must count contracted words (with
the exception of can’t = cannot) as the full form (e.g. didn’t = two words did not).
Reading and Use of English Advice by task 	13
Paper 1

-- 15 of 90 --

Reading and Use of English Part 5
THE TASK
f Part 5 consists of a text, followed by six 4-option multiple-choice questions which test the understanding of content and
text organisation. The text may be taken from, for example, a modern novel or an article. Questions may focus on the
main ideas or details in the text, and on the attitudes or opinions expressed. Candidates may also be asked to deduce
the meaning of a word or phrase and to demonstrate understanding of references, such as pronouns, within the text.
Additionally, questions may focus on the tone of the text or the writer’s purpose, as well as the use of exemplification
or comparison. These questions may require candidates to infer the meaning from clues in the text, a skill which is an
essential part of reading ability.
f The 4-option multiple-choice questions are presented in the same order as the information in the text so that
candidates can follow the development of the writer’s ideas as they work through the questions. The final question may
require candidates to interpret an aspect of the text as a whole.
HOW TO APPROACH THE TASK
f Train your students to read through the text before looking at the questions. As three out of the four options are
incorrect, there is no point in trying to absorb them all before tackling the text.
f Get your students to read each question carefully so that they have some idea of what they need to look for.
f Warn your students about the risks of word spotting, that is, assuming that an option must be correct simply because it
contains a word that is also in the text. Students need to check that the meaning of an option is reflected in the text, not
that one word is the same in both.
f When the questions take the form of incomplete sentences, encourage your students to read both parts of the sentence
carefully. They need to check that the whole sentence matches what is written in the text and not just the phrase in one
of the options.
f Make sure your students read texts in which opinions, ideas and attitudes are expressed, such as interviews with actors
or musicians in which they explain their interests and what they believe helped them to become successful, or extracts
from novels which focus on characters’ feelings.
14

-- 16 of 90 --

Reading and Use of English Part 6
THE TASK
f Part 6 consists of one text, for example an extract from a magazine, from which six sentences have been removed
and placed in jumbled order after the text, together with a seventh sentence which does not fit in any of the gaps.
Candidates are required to decide from where in the text each sentence has been removed. Each sentence may be used
only once, and there is one sentence that candidates do not need to use. The task tests understanding of how texts are
structured.
f Rather than concentrating on individual sentences, candidates need to be able to follow the development of ideas,
opinions and events through the text as a whole, using their understanding of text coherence and cohesion devices.
HOW TO APPROACH THE TASK
f Train your students to read through the text with gaps in it first so that they gain an overall idea of the structure of the
text and the development of the writer’s ideas, before starting to do the task.
f When your students are selecting a sentence to fill a gap, make sure that they look carefully at the information before
and after the gap. Candidates sometimes make the wrong choices by selecting options which seem to fit the text before
the gap, and neglecting to check that the text after the gap follows on logically.
f Give your students plenty of practice in recognising a wide range of linguistic devices which mark the logical
and cohesive development of a text, for example words and phrases indicating time periods, cause and effect,
exemplification, contrasting arguments, repetition, concordance of tenses, pronouns, etc. This will help them to make the
correct choice between two possible sentences which seem rather similar at first sight.
f As in Part 5, it is important to discourage your students from relying on ‘word spotting’, i.e. assuming that if the same
word, name, date, etc. appears in the surrounding text and one of the options, that is automatically the right sentence
to fill the gap. Train them to check all the other linguistic clues carefully before making their final decision.
Reading and Use of English Advice by task 	15
Paper 1

-- 17 of 90 --

Reading and Use of English Part 7
THE TASK
f Part 7 consists of one long text or up to six shorter texts, preceded by 10 questions. Candidates are required to locate
the specific information which matches the questions. To do this, they need to understand detail, attitude or opinion in
the question and locate a section of text where that idea is expressed, discounting ideas in other sections which may
appear similar but which do not reflect the whole of the question accurately. Some of the options may be correct for
more than one question.
HOW TO APPROACH THE TASK
f Your students will need practice in skimming and scanning texts quickly for specific information in order to prepare for
this task. Once they have done this, it may be helpful to divide the class into teams and encourage them to ‘race’ against
each other. Points should be deducted for incorrect answers, to emphasise the need for accuracy as well as speed.
f In class, ask your students to tell you why a particular part of the text matches a question. This will help them to check
their choices carefully. Once again, discourage them from choosing an answer on the basis of similar vocabulary alone.
f Give your students plenty of opportunity to read book and film reviews or articles in which a number of different people
express their thoughts about their hobbies, etc. You could also ask students, either as a pair or group activity in class,
or as a homework assignment, to devise their own Part 7 task, based on texts you provide or ones that they find for
themselves. Writing challenging questions for their classmates to try will help the students understand what clues they
will need to look for when tackling a real Part 7 task.
16

-- 18 of 90 --

Assessment
Answer key for digital test
You can find the complete digital sample sample test of the B2 First preparation page: camengli.sh/3YMtIM6
Please note that the digital exams do not use letters for the multiple-choice options.
Q 	PART 1
1 	B
2 	C
3 	B
4 	D
5 	C
6 	A
7 	D
8 	B
Q 	PART 2
9 	where
10 	so
11 	myself
12 	in
13 	which/that
14 	out/on/at
15 	from
16 	any
Q 	PART 3
17 	producer
18 	illness(es)
19 	effective
20 	scientists
21 	addition
22 	pressure
23 	disadvantage
24 	spicy
Q 	PART 4
25 	a good idea | to go
26 	talented | that he/she
27 	if he/she knew | what/the
28 	spent/took/was | a long time
29 	are/is said | to be OR it is said | are/is
30 not | call off OR you/we didn’t/did not
| call off
Q 	PART 5
31 	C
32 	D
33 	C
34 	A
35 	D
36 	C
Q 	PART 6
37 	D
38 	G
39 	F
40 	A
41 	E
42 	C
Q 	PART 7
43 	A
44 	D
45 	B
46 	D
47 	B
48 	A
49 	C
50 	B
51 	C
52 	D
Reading and Use of English Assessment 	17
Paper 1

-- 19 of 90 --

Paper-based sample test
2
Part 1
For questions
 1 – 8, read the text below and decide which answer
 (A, B, C
 or D) best fits each gap.
There is an example at the beginning
 (0)
.
Mark your answers
 on the separate answer sheet
.
Example:	
0 
A 
report
 
B 
describe
 
C 
inform
 
D 
tell
0 
A 
B 
C 
D
_________________________________________________________________________________
The oldest leather shoe in the world
Archaeologists
 (0)
 …..... that a perfectly preserved 5,500-year-old shoe has been discovered in a
cave in Armenia in south-west Asia. It is
 (1)
 …..... to be the oldest leather shoe ever found.
The shoe was made of a single piece of leather, stitched at the front and back, and was shaped to fit
	the wearer’s foot.
 
It had been
 (2)
 …..... with grasses, either for warmth or to make sure it kept its
shape.
 ‘The shoe is relatively small but we can’t say for
 (3)
 ...….. whether it was worn by a man or a
woman,’ says Dr Ron Pinhasi, an archaeologist on the research
 (4)
 ...…...
 ‘We thought at first that it
was about 600-700 years old because it was in such good shape.’
	Shoes of this type from later periods have turned
 (5)
 ...….. in archaeological excavations in various
places in Europe, and shoes of a very similar design were still being used on the Aran Islands off the
	west coast of Ireland as
 (6)
 …..... as the 1950s.
 
It’s
 (7)
 …..... a style which
 (8)
 …..... popular for
thousands of years.
3
Turn over
 ►
1 
A 
accepted
 
B 
regarded
 
C 
assessed
 
D 
believed
2 
A 
stuffed
 
B 
loaded
 
C 
pushed
 
D 
blocked
3 
A 
clear
 
B 
specific
 
C 
true
 
D 
certain
4 
A 
class
 
B 
force
 
C 
team
 
D 
company
5 
A 
over
 
B 
into
 
C 
up 
D 
about
6 
A 
recently
 
B 
lately
 
C 
presently
 
D 
immediately
7 
A 
correctly
 
B 
exactly
 
C 
precisely
 
D 
obviously
8 
A 
held
 
B 
stood
 
C 
remained
 
D 
lasted
18

-- 20 of 90 --

4
Part 2
For questions
 9 – 16, read the text below and think of the word which best fits each gap.
 
Use only
one
 word in each gap. There is an example at the beginning
 (0)
.
Write your answers
 IN CAPITAL LETTERS on the separate answer sheet
.
Example:
 
0 S I N C E
_________________________________________________________________________________
From black pepper to chilli pepper
In the 15
 th century, Europeans knew nothing of the chilli pepper, but they held black pepper in high
regard and had used it in cooking
 (0)
 …….. Greek and Roman times.
 
Ships travelling east brought
the black pepper from the Spice Islands in South East Asia but this
 (9)
 …..... a long time.
 
In 1492,
Christopher Columbus was asked to find a shorter route to the Spice Islands, going westwards	
(10)
 …..... than eastwards, and so he set
 (11)
 …...... from Spain across the Atlantic Ocean.
Columbus didn’t succeed
 (12)
 …….. finding the Spice Islands but he
 (13)
 ……..
 manage to discover
the Americas. There he
 (14)
 …….. across another pepper; the chilli, which had been used in cooking
in South America for thousands of years.
 Soon
 (15)
 ……..
 Columbus’s discovery, large quantities of
chillies were being shipped back to Spain from the Caribbean.
 
Later, people realised that chillies
would actually grow in southern Europe and it wasn’t long before fresh chillies were
 (16)
 …….. sale in
European markets.
5
Turn over
 ►
Part 3
For questions
 17 – 24
, read the text below.
 Use the word given in capitals at the end of some of the
lines to form a word that fits in the gap
 in the same line
. There is an example at the beginning
 (0)
.
Write your answers
 IN CAPITAL LETTERS on the separate answer sheet
.
Example:
 
0 M E M O
 
R A B
 
L E
_________________________________________________________________________________
Family bike fun
National Bike Week was celebrated last week in a
 (0)
 …….... way with a
Family
 
Fun
 
Day
 
in Larkside
 
Park.
 
The
 
event
 
(17)
 ……....
 
to be highly
successful with over five hundred people attending.
	Larkside
 Cycling
 Club
 brought
 along
 a (18)
 ……....
 of different
 bikes
 to
demonstrate the
 (19)
 …….... that family members of all ages can get from
group cycling. Basic cycling
 (20)
 …….... was taught using conventional bikes.
There were also some rather
 (21)
 …….... bikes on display. One-wheelers, five-
wheelers and even one which could carry up to six
 (22)
 …….... , were used for
fun.
	The club also gave information on how cycling can help to reduce
 (23)
 ……....
damage. They also provided
 (24)
 …….... as to how people could substitute the
bike for the car for daily journeys. The overall message was that cycling is
	great family fun and an excellent alternative to driving. By the end of the day
	over a hundred people had signed up for membership.
MEMORY
	PROOF
	VARY
ENJOY
	SAFE
USUAL
	RIDE
	ENVIRONMENT
	SUGGEST
Reading and Use of English Paper-based sample test 	19
Paper 1

-- 21 of 90 --

6
Part 4
For questions
 25 – 30, complete the second sentence so that it has a similar meaning to the first
sentence, using the word given.
 
Do not change the word given
. You must use between
 two
 and
five
 words, including the word given. Here is an example
 (0)
.
Example:	
0 
A very friendly taxi driver drove us into town.	
DRIVEN	
We …………………………………………………… a very friendly taxi driver.
The gap can be filled by the words ‘were driven into town by’, so you write:	
Example:
 
0 
WERE DRIVEN INTO TOWN BY
Write
 only
 the missing words
 IN CAPITAL LETTERS on the separate answer sheet
.
_________________________________________________________________________________	
25 Paula can’t wait to hear the band’s new album.	
FORWARD	
Paula is really …………………………………………………… the band’s new album.
26 Buying a daily newspaper seems pointless to me.	
POINT
I can’t …………………………………………………… a daily newspaper.
27 Daniel thought the flight would be more expensive than it actually was.	
NOT
The flight …………………………………………………… as Daniel thought it would be.
7
Turn over
 ►
28 It’s a shame I’m not able to come to your party on Saturday.	
COULD	
I …………………………………………………… to your party on Saturday.
29 There were no trainers left in Denzel’s size anywhere on the website.	
SOLD
The website had …………………………………………………… trainers in Denzel’s size.
30 Gwenda deleted her sister’s photographs by accident.	
MEAN
Gwenda …………………………………………………… her sister’s photographs.
20

-- 22 of 90 --

8
Part 5
You are going to read an article about a woman who trains actors in fighting skills.
 
For questions
31 – 36
, choose the answer (
A, B, C or D) which you think fits best according to the text.
Mark your answers
 on the separate answer sheet
.
_________________________________________________________________________________
line 22
	line 30
Kombat Kate
James Stanton meets ‘Kombat Kate’ Waters, who trains theatre actors in how to ‘fight’ on stage.
There must be few occasions when it would be really rude to refuse an invitation to head-butt someone
	you’ve just met! But I’m in one of those right now. I’m in a rehearsal room in a theatre with a group of
	actors, facing up to stage fighting director Kate Waters. I’ve already dragged her around the room and
	slapped her on the arm. Now she wants me to head-butt her. But fear not, this is all strictly pretend!
	‘Imagine there’s a tin can on my shoulder,’ she says. ‘Now try to knock it off.’ I lower my head as instructed,
	then lift it sharply, aiming for the imaginary can, hoping desperately that I don’t miscalculate the angle and
	end up doing damage to her face. To my amazement, I get it right. ‘That was good,’ says Waters. ‘Now
	maybe try it again without smiling.’
	Waters, known in the industry as Kombat Kate, is showing me how actors fight each other without getting
	hurt, and that includes sword-fighting. (She inspires fierce devotion: when I tweet that I’m meeting Waters,
	one actress friend responds: ‘She’s amazing. She taught me how to be a secret service agent in two days.’)
	Perhaps the most famous play Kate has worked on recently was called
 Noises Off
. She taught the cast how to
fall down stairs without breaking any bones. One of the fight scenes is fairly close, Kate tells me, to the one
	we’re trying out now. ‘I’ve just slowed it down a bit,’ she says tactfully, before inviting me to throw her
	against the wall. I obey, making sure I let go of her quickly, so she can control her own movement. Push your
	opponent too hard, and they will hit the wall for real. I watch her hit the wall before falling to the ground.
	She’s fine, of course. ‘That’s my party trick,’ she says with a grin. ‘Works every time.’
	Once the lesson is over Kate tells me how she became one of only two women on the official register of stage
	fight directors. Already a keen martial arts expert from childhood, Kate did drama at university, and one
	module of her course introduced her to stage combat. When she made enquiries about the possibility of
	teaching it as a career, she was told about the register and the qualifications she’d need to be accepted onto it.
	It was no small order: as well as a certificate in advanced stage combat, she would need a black belt in karate
	and proficiency in fencing, a sport she’d never tried before.
	But she rose to the challenge and taught the subject for several years at a drama college before going
	freelance and becoming a fight advisor for the theatrical world. The play she’s working on is Shakespeare’s
	Richard III. This involves a famous sword fight. With no instructions left by the great playwright other than –
	Enter Richard and Richmond: they fight, Richard dies – the style and sequence of the fight is down to Kate
	and the actors.
	‘I try to get as much information as possible about what a fight would have been like in a particular period,’
	Kate explains. ‘But because what I’m eventually doing is telling a dramatic story, not all of it is useful. The
	scene has to be exciting and do something for the audience.’
	Ultimately, of course, a stage fight is all smoke and mirrors. In our lesson, Kate shows me how an actor will
	stand with his or her back to the audience ahead of a choreographed slap or punch. When the slap comes it
	makes contact not with skin but with air: the actor whacks his chest or leg to make the sound of the slap.
	In the rehearsal room, I can’t resist asking Kate how she thinks she would fare in a real fight. Would she give
	her attacker a hard time? She laughs, ‘Oh, I’d be awful,’ she says. ‘I only know how to fake it.’ I can’t help
	thinking, however, that she’s just being rather modest.
9
Turn over
 ►
31 In the first paragraph, the writer is aware of	
A 
a critical attitude from Kate.
B 
the concern of the other actors.
C 
the need to reassure his readers.
D 
having been in a similar situation before.
32 How does the writer feel when Kate mentions the tin can?	
A 
worried about hurting Kate
B 
relieved that Kate is just pretending
C 
concerned that it may injure his head
D 
convinced that he won’t take it seriously enough
33 When Kate and the writer repeat the fight scene from
 Noises Off
, we learn that
A 
the writer isn’t sure of his instructions.
B 
Kate has adapted it slightly for the writer to try.
C 
the writer is initially unwilling to do it.
D 
Kate has to react quickly to a mistake the writer makes.
34 What does the phrase ‘no small order’ (line 22) tell us about stage combat?	
A 
Kate knew she would love learning about it.
B 
It is something very few people ever perfect.
C 
Studying it required a lot of obedience and respect.
D 
Qualifying to teach it would be a long and difficult process.
35 What does the writer tell us about the sword fight in the play Richard III?	
A 
Its details need to be made up.
B 
It’s a particularly challenging scene to do.
C 
Its action is conveyed through spoken words.
D 
It is widely agreed to be the most exciting of its kind.
36 What does ‘it’ refer to in line 30?	
A 
information
B 
a fight
C 
a particular period
D 
a dramatic story
Reading and Use of English Paper-based sample test 	21
Paper 1

-- 23 of 90 --

10
Part 6
You are going to read a newspaper article about the man who designed the recycling symbol.
 
Six
sentences have been removed from the article.
 Choose from the sentences
 A – G
 the one which fits
each gap (
37 – 42
). There is one extra sentence which you do not need to use.
Mark your answers
 on the separate answer sheet
.
373839404142
How the recycling
symbol was created
Gary Anderson designed a symbol which we
see everywhere nowadays.
I studied
 
engineering
 
at the
 
University
 
of
Southern California at a time when there was a
	lot of emphasis in the United States on training
	young
 people
 to be engineers.
 That
 said,
 I
eventually
 
switched
 
to architecture.
 
I just
couldn’t
 
get
 
a grasp
 
on electronics
 
and
architecture seemed more concrete to me.
	It was around that time that I saw a poster
	advertising a design competition being run by
	the Container Corporation of America. The idea
	was to create a symbol to represent recycled
	paper.
 One
 of my
 college
 requirements
 had
been a graphic design course so I thought I’d
	give it a go. It didn’t take me long to come up
	with my design: only a day or two.
 x37xx xx
 But
I already had arrows and angles in my mind
	because on my course I’d done a presentation
	on recycling waste water. I’d come up with a
	graphic that described this process very simply.
	The problem with the design I’d done earlier
	was that it seemed flat, two-dimensional. So
	when
 I sat
 down
 to enter
 the
 competition,
 I
thought back to a field trip in elementary school
	to a newspaper office where we’d been shown
	how paper was fed over rollers as it was printed.	
x38xx xx
 The three arrows in it look like strips
of folded-over paper. I drew them in pencil, and
	then traced over everything in black ink. These
	days, with computer graphics packages, it’s rare
	that designs are quite so plain.
I think I found out I’d won the competition in a
	letter. Was I excited? Well, yes of course – but
	not that excited.
 x39xx xx
 So it just seemed
like,
 
of course
 
I would
 
win!
 
There
 
was
 
a
monetary prize, though for the life of me I can’t
	remember how much it was... about $2,000?
	When I finished my studies, I decided to go into
	urban planning and I moved to Los Angeles. It
	seems funny, but I really played down the fact
	that
 I’d won
 this
 competition.
 I was
 afraid
 it
would make me look as though I was interested
	in graphics,
 
rather
 
than
 
urban
 
planning.
x40xx xx
 I remember seeing it once on a leaflet
which had been produced on recycled paper,
	but then it disappeared.	
A while after graduating, I flew to Amsterdam for
	a holiday. I’ll never forget: when I walked off the
	plane,
 
I saw
 
my
 
symbol.
 
It was
 
on a big
recycling bin. And it was bigger than a beach
	ball!
 x41xxx x
 I was really taken aback. That
was quite a long time ago though. Since then,
	I’ve got more qualifications and worked for quite
	a 
few
 
different
 
firms,
 
some
 
more
environmentally aware than others.
	I feel much prouder of the recycling symbol now
	than I used to, probably because it’s so widely
	seen.
 
Maybe
 
this
 
design
 
has
 
been
 
more
important
 
to me
 
than
 
I’d thought.
 
x42xx xx
There’s more to me than the recycling symbol.
11
Turn over
 ►
A 
Still, I’d hate to think that my life’s work is
	defined by it.
E 
I realise that seems ridiculous for something
	that’s been so successful.
B 
I used what I’d seen to create the image.
 
F 
Also, nothing much happened to the symbol
	for a while.
C 
I’m no expert on recycling but I can certainly
	see its value.
G 
I guess
 at that
 point
 in my
 life
 I had
 an
exaggerated sense of my own importance.
D 
I hadn’t thought about it for years and there it
	was right in my face.
22

-- 24 of 90 --

12
Part 7
You are going to read part of the autobiography of a surfing instructor. For questions
 43 – 52
, choose
from the sections (
A – E
). The sections may be chosen more than once.
Mark your answers
 on the separate answer sheet
.
_________________________________________________________________________________	
In which section does the writer mention	
feeling satisfaction that her determination resulted in better performance?
 
43
the problem of having to wait for conditions to be favourable for surfing?
 
44
a change which helped her to pursue her hobby?
 
45
continuing to surf even when the conditions were unfavourable?
 
46
the pleasure she gets from seeing others succeed?
 
47
being aware that it would take time for her abilities to be recognised?
 
48
her enthusiasm for the sea being recognised by someone else?
 
49
an admission that she doesn’t think about what she is doing when surfing?
 
50
not being concerned that she stood out from others?
 
51
people appreciating her serious attitude towards her surfing?
 
52
13
Walking on waves
Sarah Whiteley talks about her love of surfing and how it began.
A My journey to the sea began when I was tiny.
	My mum, who used to surf then, would sit me
	on one of her old boards and push me into the
	little waves in a few centimetres of water. We
	both
 
soon
 
realised
 
I had
 
an unstoppable
appetite for the waves, something which has
	never faded. Soon after that we moved to a
	house which was almost on the beach. I could
	literally walk out of the garden into the sea.
	Living by the sea is something you never take
	for granted if you surf. I open the curtains in the
	morning and my heart leaps as I see the long
	perfect lines of waves rolling into the bay.
D Over time and after a few hair-raising moments,
	I made
 
some
 
friends
 
and
 
mutual
 
respect
blossomed
 between
 
me
 
and
 
the
 guys
 
who
spent all their time in the waves with me. When
	I started pulling off some good moves on my
	surfboard and throwing a bit of spray on the
	waves, they began giving me a bit of credit, so
	that if I was going out when the surf was really
	big, they would shout out instructions to make
	sure I had the best chance. They knew I wasn’t
	messing about and that I was going for it out
	there. Things got really interesting when I went
	in for
 competitions.
 In fact,
 I entered
 every
national
 
surfing
 
competition
 
over
 
ten
 
years.
Competition
 
surfing
 
can
 
be 
extremely
frustrating,
 
since
 
you
 
can
 
never
 
guarantee
waves at a certain time on a certain day, and
	there’s vast amounts of hanging around.
B Being the only girl in the water when I was
	learning to surf never bothered me because I’d
	always been trying to keep up with an elder
	brother who was exceptionally good at sports.
	So there I was, a tiny little thing, itching to
	better my surfing by checking out other surfers
	and looking for new moves. I was surfing four
	times a day in the summer holidays, before and
	after school right through the winter months as
	the
 temperatures
 dropped
 and
 the
 sea
 was
really wild. I just couldn’t get enough of it.
E Now I’ve set up a surf school and I’ve got a
	whole
 
new
 
perspective.
 
When
 
you
 
start
teaching
 
something,
 
you
 
have
 
to learn
 
for
yourself again. Everything you’ve been doing
	instinctively without really noticing for the last
	fifteen years has now got to be passed on, and
	it gets surprisingly detailed and tricky in parts.
	But
 it’s
 been
 fantastic
 introducing
 so many
people to the sport, and it’s even better when
	you get to see their big grins when they stand
	up for the first time and ride a wave into the
	shore. Surfing has taken me all over the world
	and
 now
 it feels
 like
 it’s
 brought
 me
 home
again.
C Things started to get competitive as I got older
	and stronger. I was tackling more challenging
	waves:
 
faster,
 
more
 
powerful
 
and
 
more
dangerous, but I was gaining confidence and
	building up my experience, and it was really
	rewarding to see myself improving. And that’s
	when the boys started to notice me, and they
	weren’t
 too
 sure
 how
 to cope
 with
 it. They
seemed to think along the lines of ‘She’s only a
	girl – she won’t manage that wave, so I’ll get in
	there and show her how to do it.’ Convincing
	them that I could hold my own in the waves
	wasn’t going to happen overnight.
Reading and Use of English Paper-based sample test 	23
Paper 1

-- 25 of 90 --

Assessment
Answer key for paper-based test
You can find the complete digital sample test on the B2 First preparation page: camengli.sh/3YMtIM6
Reading and Use of English paper-based sample test
Q 	PART 1
1 	D
2 	A
3 	D
4 	C
5 	C
6 	A
7 	D
8 	C
Q 	PART 2
9 	took
10 	rather
11 	off/out/sail
12 	in
13 	did
14 	came
15 	after
16 	on/for
Q 	PART 3
17 	proved
18 	variety
19 	enjoyment
20 	safety
21 	unusual
22 	riders
23 	environmental
24 	suggestions
Q 	PART 4
25 	looking forward | to hearing
26 see the point | in/of buying OR see
any point | (in) buying
27 	was not | as/so expensive
28 	wish | (that) I could come
29 	(completely) sold out | of (the)
30 	didn’t/did not mean | to delete
Q 	PART 5
31 	C
32 	A
33 	B
34 	D
35 	A
36 	A
Q 	PART 6
37 	E
38 	B
39 	G
40 	F
41 	D
42 	A
Q 	PART 7
43 	C
44 	D
45 	A
46 	B
47 	E
48 	C
49 	A
50 	E
51 	B
52 	D
24

-- 26 of 90 --

Paper-based answer sheet
Parts 1, 5, 6 and 7:	
Mark ONE letter for each question.
	For example, if you think A is the right
	answer to the question,
	mark your answer
	sheet like this:	
8
Parts 2, 3 and 4:
 Write your answer clearly in CAPITAL LETTERS.
For parts 2 and 3, write
	one letter in each box.
OFFICE USE ONLY - DO NOT WRITE OR MAKE ANY MARK ABOVE THIS LINE
 
Page 1 of 2
OFFICE USE ONLY - DO NOT WRITE OR MAKE ANY MARK BELOW THIS LINE
 
Page 1 of 2
First Reading and Use of English Candidate Answer Sheet
Continues over
Candidate
	Name
Centre
	Number
	Candidate
	Number
Centre
	Name
Assessment
	Date
	Examination
	Details
Examination
	Title
Candidate
	Signature
Supervisor: If the candidate is ABSENT or has WITHDRAWN shade here
A 
B 
C 
D
A 
B 
C 
D
A 
B 
C 
D
A 
B 
C 
D
A 
B 
C 
D
A 
B 
C 
D
1
	2
	3
	4
	5
	6
A 
B 
C 
D
A 
B 
C 
D
7
12
	13
	14
	11
	9
	10
	15
Do not write
	below here
1 
0
11
1 
0
12
1 
0
13
1 
0
14
1 
0
9
1 
0
10
Part 2
Part 1
1 
0
15
Instructions
	Use a PENCIL (B or HB).	
Rub out any answer you want to change using an eraser.
16 
1 
0
16
38926
38926
OFFICE USE ONLY - DO NOT WRITE OR MAKE ANY MARK ABOVE THIS LINE
 
Page 2 of 2
OFFICE USE ONLY - DO NOT WRITE OR MAKE ANY MARK BELOW THIS LINE
 
Page 2 of 2
	Do not write
	below here
Part 3
1 
0
20
1 
0
21
1 
0
22
1 
0
17
1 
0
18
1 
0
19
1 
0
23
1 
0
24
21	
22	
23
	20
	17
	18
	19
	24
25
26
27
28
29
30
	Part 4
 
Do not write
	below here
A 
B 
C 
D
A 
B 
C 
D
A 
B 
C 
D
A 
B 
C 
D
A 
B 
C 
D
A 
B 
C 
D
31
32
33
34
35
36
	Part 5
37
	40
	38
39
A 
B 
C 
D 
E 
F 
G
A 
B 
C 
D 
E 
F 
G
A 
B 
C 
D 
E 
F 
G
A 
B 
C 
D 
E 
F 
G
A 
B 
C 
D 
E 
F 
G
41
42 A 
B 
C 
D 
E 
F 
G
Part 6
43
	46
	44
45
A 
B 
C 
D 
E 
F
A 
B 
C 
D 
E 
F
A 
B 
C 
D 
E 
F
A 
B 
C 
D 
E 
F
A 
B 
C 
D 
E 
F
47
48 A 
B 
C 
D 
E 
F
Part 7
	50
	49 A 
B 
C 
D 
E 
F
A 
B 
C 
D 
E 
F
A 
B 
C 
D 
E 
F
51
52 A 
B 
C 
D 
E 
F
1 0
25 2
1 0
26 2
1 0
27 2
1 0
28 2
1 0
29 2
1 0
30 2
38926
38926
Reading and Use of English Paper-based answer sheet 	25
Paper 1

-- 27 of 90 --

Writing
Paper 2:
Writing tasks
1 hour 20 mins
The test contains two parts. Candidates are required to complete two tasks: a compulsory one in Part 1 and one from a
choice of three in Part 2.
PART NUMBER OF
QUESTIONS
NUMBER
OF MARKS TASK TYPES 	FOCUS 	FORMAT
1 	1 	20
Writing an essay
(one compulsory
task)
140–190 words
Focus on agreeing
or disagreeing with
a statement, giving
information, giving opinion,
giving reasons, comparing
and contrasting ideas and
opinions, drawing
a conclusion.
Candidates are required to
deal with input of up to 120
words. There is an opening
rubric to set the scene, and
then an essay question
with two given prompts,
plus a prompt requiring
candidates to write about
their own additional idea.
2 	1 	20
Writing
(choose one task
from a choice of
three)
140–190 words
Writing one of the following:
an article, email, letter,
review or report.
A situationally based
writing task specified in no
more than 70 words.
TOTAL 2 	40
26

-- 28 of 90 --

Tips for preparing learners for the Writing test
 Candidates write most effectively when they
choose tasks and topics suited to their interests
and experience. When preparing students for the
examination, it is important to ensure they are familiar
with the paper and the range of task types and
topics so that they can identify those which are most
accessible to them.
 Train your students to read the questions carefully,
highlighting or underlining the most important parts.
They then need to make a plan, referring closely to
the question and looking for opportunities to develop
their ideas and show their range of language.
 The time allowed for the Writing test (1 hour 20
minutes) is designed to be sufficient for candidates to
make brief plans and then write two answers.
 Your students need to think carefully about who the
target reader is for each task and try to write in an
appropriate style and tone.
 Linking ideas effectively is something your students
will need guidance on. Using a variety of linking words
is important, as is ensuring that the flow of ideas in
the writing is logical and easy for the reader to follow.
 Your students should be encouraged to use a range of
complex language. If, in doing so, they make mistakes,
candidates will always be given credit for the complex
language attempted, as long as the mistakes do not
impede communication.
 Make sure your students have practice in answering
questions without the use of dictionaries. Dictionaries
are not allowed in the B2 First examination.
 Make sure your students are aware of the importance
of spelling and punctuation. Although spelling errors
and faulty punctuation are not specifically penalised,
they can sometimes impede communication. (N.B.
American usage and spelling are acceptable.) Remind
students of the importance of checking their work.
 Each question on the Writing test carries equal marks,
so your students should practise planning the time
they spend on each question carefully.
Completing the digital test
(digital test only)
• 	There is a timer on the screen which tells candidates
how much time they have left.
• 	Candidates may take pens and pencils and water
in a clear, see-through bottle into the exam room,
but nothing else (including bags and anything
electronic).
• 	Students should be given timed practice of typing
and editing their answers on screen so they are
comfortable completing the tasks in the time
available.
Completing the answer sheet
(paper-based test only)
• 	The questions are in a booklet. The answers are
written in a separate booklet with lined pages.
• 	Any corrections candidates make should be clear, so
that they can be easily followed.
• 	Counting words wastes time in an examination and
leads to clumsy alterations to what a candidate has
already written. Students need practice in writing
tasks within the word limit so that they can estimate
when they have written enough.
• 	Remind your students that they must write their
answers in the answer booklet.
• 	It is important to write clearly so that the answers
are easy to read. However, it is not important
whether candidates write in upper or lower case, or
whether their writing is joined up or not.
Expected word length
Candidates are asked to write 140–190 words for both Part
1 and Part 2.
Writing approximately the right number of words is an
integral part of task achievement. If significantly fewer
words are written, this is likely to mean that the task has
not been successfully completed, whereas overlong pieces
of writing may involve irrelevance, repetition of ideas, poor
organisation and have a negative effect on the target
reader.
Writing Preparing learners 	27
Paper 2

-- 29 of 90 --

Task types in the Writing paper
The different task types are intended to provide frameworks for candidates so that they can put together and develop their
ideas on a topic with a purpose for writing and a target reader in mind. These indications of readership and purpose are
not comprehensive, but are intended to provide some guidance about the different task types.
An article is usually written for an English-language magazine or newsletter, and the reader is assumed to have similar
interests to the writer. The main purpose is to interest and engage the reader, so there should be some opinion or
comment.
An email/a letter is written in response to the situation outlined in the question. Letters and emails in the B2 First Writing
paper will require a response which is consistently appropriate in register and tone for the specified target reader..
Candidates can expect to write to, for example, an English-speaking friend or colleague, a potential employer, a college
principal or a magazine editor.
An essay is always written for the teacher. It should answer the question given by addressing both content points and
providing a new content point of the writer’s own. The essay should be well organised, with an introduction and an
appropriate conclusion, and should be written in an appropriate register and tone.
A report is usually written for a superior (e.g. a teacher) or a peer group (e.g. members of an English club). Candidates
are expected to give some factual information and make suggestions or recommendations. A report should be clearly
organised and may include headings.
A review is usually written for an English-language magazine, newspaper or website. The main purpose is to describe and
express a personal opinion about something which the writer has experienced (e.g. a film, a holiday, a product, a website
etc.) and to give the reader a clear impression of what the item discussed is like. Description and explanation are key
functions for this task, and a review will normally include a recommendation to the reader.
For all task types, questions are constructed to enable candidates to display their English language proficiency at
CEFR B2 level; candidates should take special care to read every part of each question, and to not omit any required
development of the topic.
28

-- 30 of 90 --

Advice by task
This section shows example screenshots from the B2 First Digital exam. To access the complete digital
sample test, please scan the QR code, or go to camengli.sh/3YMtIM6
Writing Part 1 - Compulsory task
THE TASK
f In Part 1, the task will be in the form of an essay question with prompts. The range of functions tested will include
agreeing or disagreeing with a statement, giving opinions on a question, giving information or explanations, comparing
and contrasting ideas and opinions, exemplifying and giving reasons and drawing conclusions. Candidates are required
to write a discursive essay in grammatically correct English, using a neutral or formal register.
HOW TO APPROACH THE TASK
f The input for Part 1 may be up to 120 words, including the rubric. The rubric will set the scene and topic for the essay.
The essay may take the form of a direct question or statement, which candidates are asked to give their opinions about.
The essay will have two given prompts which supply ideas clearly linked to the question or statement. Candidates
must address both prompts and also introduce a third distinct idea of their own. This third idea is in addition to any
overall conclusions. Candidates need to ensure that all the content of their essay is clear and easy to follow. Effective
organisation and cohesion are important features of a successful essay. A range of structures will be required to
communicate ideas and opinions, along with the use of appropriate vocabulary.
f It is vital that candidates read the rubric, essay question and prompts very carefully in order to understand what they
are expected to do. Successful essays address the question or statement in a clear and logical way. It is important that
candidates keep to the focus of the topic in question and that all their ideas and opinions are relevant to the question.
f Students need to become experienced at discussing the advantages and disadvantages of aspects of all kinds of
topics at B2 level. Being able to support an opinion with reasons and examples is another skill required when writing
an effective essay. The two given prompts help to guide and develop the essay and clearly relate to the question or
statement. Candidates also need to think of a third idea of their own which is distinct from the two given prompts.
Brainstorming ideas for different topics will be very useful practice for this. If any of the three essay prompts is missed
out, then the target reader will not be fully informed and the candidate will be penalised.
f In order to hold the reader’s attention successfully, candidates need to express their ideas in a clear and logical way,
making sure that the development of the essay is smooth and easy to follow. Varying the length of sentences, using
direct and indirect questions and using a variety of structures and vocabulary may all help to communicate ideas more
effectively.
f Essays should be well organised and coherent. Students need practice in planning an essay effectively. The correct use
of linking words and phrases (e.g. but, so, however, on the other hand, etc.), the appropriate use of cohesive devices (e.g.
using pronouns for referencing) and the use of paragraphs to guide the reader, are all aspects of organisation which
should be practised and developed.
f To produce a successful essay, candidates need to be familiar with a range of structures which can be used when
comparing, contrasting, agreeing, disagreeing, explaining, informing and giving opinions with reasons or examples. The
different ways of opening a discussion and reaching a conclusion should also be explored and practised. Exposure to a
range of vocabulary used to discuss current issues and aspects of life is also very important.
Writing Advice by task 	29
Paper 2

-- 31 of 90 --

Writing Part 2 - Choice of three tasks
THE TASK
f Part 2 consists of three questions from which candidates must choose one.
f The input for these three tasks is considerably less than in Part 1. Each writing task in Part 2 has a context, a purpose for
writing and a target reader specified in no more than 70 words.
HOW TO APPROACH THE TASK
f Attention to every element in the question is essential for effective task achievement and candidates should consider
carefully what level of formality is appropriate to the task.
f In Part 2, candidates have a choice of tasks. Questions 2–4 are general questions, based on a range of topics, such as
health and fitness, sport, music and so on. The tasks for Questions 2–4 may include any of the following task types: an
article, a letter/email, a review, or a report.
f As with Part 1, candidates are expected to show that they are aware of the kind of writing required to accomplish a
task, and must be able to demonstrate appropriate use of one or more of the following functions: describing, explaining,
reporting, giving information, suggesting, recommending, or persuading.
f The different task types are intended to provide guidance for the candidates, so they can put together and develop
their ideas on a topic, with a purpose for writing and a target reader in mind.
f The tasks in Part 2 give candidates a chance to show their range of language. In class, students should be encouraged
to use a variety of grammatical structures and explore the use of new vocabulary and expressions.
f Since there is always a choice of task types in Part 2, students should choose a task type suited to their interests or
experience.
f Each word in the instructions is important to the task. Students should, therefore, be advised to avoid a question if they
are unsure of what is required as their answer may not be wholly relevant.
30

-- 32 of 90 --

Assessment
Assessment scales
Tasks are marked using assessment scales that were
developed with explicit reference to the Common European
Framework of Reference (CEFR). The scales consist of
four subscales: Content, Communicative Achievement,
Organisation, and Language:
• 	Content focuses on how well the candidate has
fulfilled the task, in other words if they have done
what they were asked
to do.
• 	Communicative Achievement focuses on how
appropriate the writing is for the task and whether
the candidate has used the appropriate register.
• 	Organisation focuses on the way the candidate puts
together the piece of writing, in other words if it is
logical and ordered.
• 	Language focuses on vocabulary and grammar.
This includes the range of language as well as how
accurate it is.
Responses are marked on each subscale from 0 to 5.
When being marked, the length of responses and varieties
of English are taken into account:
• 	Guidelines on length are provided for each task;
responses which are too short may not have an
adequate range of language and may not provide
all the information that is required, while responses
which are too long may contain irrelevant content
and have a negative effect on the reader. These may
affect candidates’ marks on the relevant subscales.
• 	Candidates are expected to use a particular variety
of English with some degree of consistency in areas
such as spelling, and not, for example, switch from
using a British spelling of a word to an American
spelling of the same word.
• 	Candidates should also aim to use a range of tenses,
expressions and vocabulary, even if these contain
some minor mistakes. It’s important for candidates to
show the full range of their language ability and to
be ambitious in their use of language.
• 	Non-impeding errors, which do not affect
communication, will not necessarily be penalised.
These include spelling, grammar or punctuation
errors. However, errors which interfere with or cause
a breakdown in communication will be treated more
severely.
The subscale Content is common to all levels:
CONTENT
5 • 	All content is relevant to the task.
• 	Target reader is fully informed.
3
• 	Minor irrelevances and/or omissions may
be present.
• 	Target reader is on the whole informed.
1
• 	Irrelevances and misinterpretation of task
may be present.
• 	Target reader is minimally informed.
0 • 	Content is totally irrelevant.
• 	Target reader is not informed.
Writing Assessment 	31
Paper 2

-- 33 of 90 --

The remaining three subscales (Communicative Achievement, Organisation, and Language) have descriptors specific to
each CEFR level:
CEFR
LEVEL
COMMUNICATIVE
ACHIEVEMENT ORGANISATION 	LANGUAGE
Demonstrates complete command
of the conventions of the
communicative task.
Communicates complex ideas
in an effective and convincing
way, holding the target reader’s
attention with ease, fulfilling all
communicative purposes.
Text is organised impressively
and coherently using a wide
range of cohesive devices
and organisational patterns
with complete flexibility.
Uses a wide range of vocabulary,
including less common lexis, with fluency,
precision, sophistication
and style.
Use of grammar is sophisticated, fully
controlled and completely natural.
Any inaccuracies occur only as slips.
C2
Uses the conventions of the
communicative task with sufficient
flexibility to communicate complex
ideas in an effective way, holding
the target reader’s attention with
ease, fulfilling all communicative
purposes.
Text is a well-organised,
coherent whole, using a
variety of cohesive devices
and organisational patterns
with flexibility.
Uses a range of vocabulary, including
less common lexis, effectively and
precisely.
Uses a wide range of simple and
complex grammatical forms with full
control, flexibility and sophistication.
Errors, if present, are related to less
common words and structures, or occur
as slips.
C1
Uses the conventions of the
communicative task effectively to
hold the target reader’s attention
and communicate straightforward
and complex ideas, as appropriate.
Text is well organised and
coherent, using a variety
of cohesive devices and
organisational patterns to
generally good effect.
Uses a range of vocabulary, including
less common lexis, appropriately.
Uses a range of simple and complex
grammatical forms with control and
flexibility.
Occasional errors may be present but
do not impede communication.
B2
Uses the conventions of the
communicative task to hold the
target reader’s attention and
communicate straightforward
ideas.
Text is generally well
organised and coherent, using
a variety of linking words and
cohesive devices.
Uses a range of everyday vocabulary
appropriately, with occasional
inappropriate use of less common lexis.
Uses a range of simple and some
complex grammatical forms with a good
degree of control.
Errors do not impede communication.
B1
Uses the conventions of the
communicative task in generally
appropriate ways to communicate
straightforward ideas.
Text is connected and
coherent, using basic linking
words and a limited number of
cohesive devices.
Uses everyday vocabulary generally
appropriately, while occasionally
overusing certain lexis.
Uses simple grammatical forms with a
good degree of control.
While errors are noticeable, meaning
can still be determined.
A2 Produces text that communicates
simple ideas in simple ways.
Text is connected using basic,
high-frequency linking words.
Uses basic vocabulary reasonably
appropriately.
Uses simple grammatical forms with
some degree of control.
Errors may impede meaning at times.
32

-- 34 of 90 --

The following assessment scale, extracted from the one on the previous page, is used for marking candidate responses.
B2 	CONTENT COMMUNICATIVE
ACHIEVEMENT ORGANISATION 	LANGUAGE
5
All content is
relevant to the
task.
Target reader is
fully informed.
Uses the conventions
of the communicative
task effectively to
hold the target
reader’s attention
and communicate
straightforward and
complex ideas, as
appropriate.
Text is well organised
and coherent,
using a variety of
cohesive devices and
organisational patterns
to generally good
effect.
Uses a range of vocabulary, including
less common lexis, appropriately.
Uses a range of simple and complex
grammatical forms with control and
flexibility.
Occasional errors may be present
but do not impede communication.
4 	Performance shares features of Bands 3 and 5.
3
Minor irrelevances
and/or omissions
may be present.
Target reader is on
the whole informed.
Uses the conventions
of the communicative
task to hold the target
reader’s attention
and communicate
straightforward ideas.
Text is generally well
organised and coherent,
using a variety of linking
words and cohesive
devices.
Uses a range of everyday vocabulary
appropriately, with occasional
inappropriate use of less common
lexis.
Uses a range of simple and some
complex grammatical forms with a
good degree of control.
Errors do not impede communication.
2 	Performance shares features of Bands 1 and 3.
1
Irrelevances and
misinterpretation
of task may be
present.
Target reader is
minimally informed.
Uses the conventions of
the communicative task
in generally appropriate
ways to communicate
straightforward ideas.
Text is connected and
coherent, using basic
linking words and a
limited number of
cohesive devices.
Uses everyday vocabulary generally
appropriately, while occasionally
overusing certain lexis.
Uses simple grammatical forms with a
good degree of control.
While errors are noticeable, meaning
can still be determined.
0
Content is totally
irrelevant.
Target reader is
not informed.
Performance below Band 1.
Writing Advice by task 	33
Paper 2

-- 35 of 90 --

Writing mark scheme
Glossary of terms
1. General
Generally
Generally is a qualifier meaning not in every way
or instance. Thus, generally appropriately refers to
performance that is not as good as ‘appropriately’.
Flexibility
Flexible and flexibly refer to the ability to adapt – whether
language, organisational devices, or task conventions
– rather than using the same form over and over, thus
evidencing better control and a wider repertoire of the
resource. Flexibility allows a candidate to better achieve
communicative goals.
2. Content
Relevant
Relevant means related or relatable to required content
points and/or task requirements.
Target reader
The target reader is the hypothetical reader set up in the
task, e.g. a magazine’s readership, your English teacher.
Informed
The target reader is informed if content points and/or task
requirements are addressed and appropriately developed.
Some content points do not require much development (e.g.
state what is x) while others require it (describe, explain).
3. Communicative Achievement
Conventions of the communicative task
Conventions of the communicative task include such
things as genre, format, register and function. For example,
a personal email should not be written as a formal report,
should be laid out accordingly, and use the right tone for
the communicative purpose.
Holding the target reader’s attention
Holding the target reader’s attention is used in the
positive sense and refers to the quality of a text that allows
a reader to derive meaning and not be distracted. It
does not refer to texts that force a reader to read closely
because they are difficult to follow or make sense of.
Communicative purpose
Communicative purpose refers to the communicative
requirements as set out in the task, e.g. make a complaint,
suggest alternatives.
Straightforward and complex ideas
Straightforward ideas are those which relate to relatively
limited subject matter, usually concrete in nature, and which
require simpler rhetorical devices to communicate. Complex
ideas are those which are of a more abstract nature, or
which cover a wider subject area, requiring more rhetorical
resources to bring together and express.
4. Organisation
Linking words, cohesive devices and organisational
patterns
Linking words are cohesive devices, but are separated
here to refer to higher-frequency vocabulary which
provides explicit linkage. They can range from basic high-
frequency items (such as and, but) to basic and phrasal
items (such as because, first of all, finally).
Cohesive devices refers to more sophisticated linking words
and phrases (e.g. moreover, it may appear, as a result), as
well as grammatical devices such as the use of reference
pronouns, substitution (e.g. There are two women in the
picture. The one on the right …), ellipsis (e.g. The first car he
owned was a convertible, or the second a family car), or
repetition.
Organisational patterns refers to less-explicit ways of
achieving connection at the between-sentence level and
beyond, e.g. arranging sentences in climactic order, the use
of parallelism, using a rhetorical question to set up a new
paragraph.
5. Language
Vocabulary
Basic vocabulary refers to vocabulary used for survival
purposes, for simple transactions, and the like.
Everyday vocabulary refers to vocabulary that comes up in
common situations of a non-technical nature in the relevant
domain.
Less common lexis refers to vocabulary items that appear
less often in the relevant domain. These items often help to
express ideas more succinctly and precisely.
Appropriacy of vocabulary
Appropriacy of vocabulary: the use of words and phrases
that fit the context of the given task. For example, in I’m
very sensible to noise, the word sensible is inappropriate
as the word should be sensitive. Another example would
be Today’s big snow makes getting around the city difficult.
The phrase getting around is well suited to this situation.
However, big snow is inappropriate as big and snow are not
used together. Heavy snow would be appropriate.
34

-- 36 of 90 --

Grammatical forms
Simple grammatical forms: words, phrases, basic tenses
and simple clauses.
Complex grammatical forms: longer and more complex
items, e.g. noun clauses, relative and adverb clauses,
subordination, passive forms, infinitives, verb patterns,
modal forms and tense contrasts.
Grammatical control
Grammatical control: the ability to consistently use
grammar accurately and appropriately to convey intended
meaning.
Where language specifications are provided at lower levels
(as in A2 Key and B1 Preliminary), candidates may have
control of only the simplest exponents of the listed forms.
Range
Range: the variety of words and grammatical forms a
candidate uses. At higher levels, candidates will make
increasing use of a greater variety of words, fixed phrases,
collocations and grammatical forms.
Overuse
Overuse refers to those cases where candidates
repeatedly use the same word because they do not have
the resources to use another term or phrase the same idea
in another way. Some words may unavoidably appear often
as a result of being the topic of the task; that is not covered
by the term overuse here.
Errors and slips
Errors are systematic mistakes. Slips are mistakes that
are non-systematic, i.e. the candidate has learned
the vocabulary item or grammatical structure, but
just happened to make a mistake in this instance. In a
candidate’s response, where most other examples of a
lexical/grammatical point are accurate, a mistake on that
point would most likely be a slip.
Impede communication
Impede communication means getting in the way of
meaning. Meaning can still be determined indicates that
some effort is required from the reader to determine
meaning.
Writing Glossary of terms 	35
Paper 2

-- 37 of 90 --

Sample answers and comments for the digital sample test
You can find the complete digital sample on the B2 First page: camengli.sh/3YMtIM6
Question 1
Candidate A
To begin with pollution and damage to the environment is the most serious and difficult problem for countries of all
over the world. Scientists of different countries predict a global ecocatastrophe if people won’t change their attitude
to our planet.
First of all a huge damage to the environment brings a transport. People can’t imagine their living without cars,
buses, trains, ships and planes. But it’s an open secret that one of disadvantage of these accustomed things is harmful
exhaust. Needless to say that use of environment friendly engines helps us to save atmosphere from pollution.
In addition to this our rivers and seas are in not less danger situation. It’s a fact of common knowledge that numerous
factories and plants pour off their waste to ponds. Obviously that cleaning manufacturing water helps to avoid
extinction of ocean residents.
Apart from this I’m inclined to believe that every person can and must contribute to solving this important problem.
Doing a little steps for protection our environment every day we will be able to save our Earth. And it’s a task of each of
us.
Comments
SUBSCALE 	MARK 	COMMENTARY
Content 	4
All content is relevant to the task. However, the target reader is on the whole informed,
rather than being fully informed. Both numbered points (transport; rivers and seas) are
referred to with some discussion of the problems caused (harmful exhaust; factories which
pour off their waste to ponds) and some limited mention of solutions.
No tangible 3rd aspect of environmental damage is discussed.
While the writer does conclude with a strong statement of opinion (every person can and
must) the reader is not fully informed on the solutions proposed (Doing a little steps for
protection our environment every day we will be able to save our Earth).
Communicative
Achievement 3
The essay is written in a consistently neutral register and the format is appropriate for the
communicative task, using more formal language to introduce the ideas within the text (To
begin with; First of all; It’s a fact of common knowledge).
There is a clear essay structure with an opening statement, topic paragraphs and a
conclusion which sums up the writer’s point of view.
Straightforward ideas are communicated to the target reader but when more complex
ideas are attempted these are sometimes not as successful (Obviously that cleaning
manufacturing water helps to avoid extinction of ocean residents).
Organisation 	3
The text is generally well organised and coherent, using a variety of linking words and
cohesive devices, particularly to introduce the ideas throughout the text (To begin with; In
addition to this; Needless to say; Apart from this).
The essay is clearly organised into paragraphs, which each deal with one idea. Occasionally
the follow-up examples are not as clearly connected as they could be. For example, they
discuss how factories pollute pond water and then offer a solution which would help ocean
residents.
Language 	3
There is a range of everyday vocabulary used appropriately with some attempt to use more
sophisticated lexis (a global ecocatastrophe; atmosphere; common knowledge; factories
and plants; inclined to believe; must contribute to solving).
There is a range of simple and some more complex grammatical forms used, and although
there are errors, these do not impede communication (a huge damage; People can’t imagine
their living without cars; one of disadvantage; in not less danger situation).
36

-- 38 of 90 --

Question 1
Candidate B
I think that my country has problems with pollution to the environment like all other countries. This problem is normal
for Russia. We have big problems with transport because there are too much cars in our country. And because of that
we have problems with atmospeer, air in my city and in all Russia is really dirty and sometimes I can’t make a sigh
because it smells around me and of course around that cars on the road. I’ve heard about tradition of one country.
They don’t go anywhere by car one day a month or a year, they just use bycicle or their feet. I think it could be very
good if we had a tradition like that.
So, what about the rivers and the seas? Yeah, there are some really good and clean rivers and seas where you can go,
but there are not many of them. Once I saw the river OB in my city, it was about two years ago but I stil remember that
in some places it was not blue, it was green or purple I didn’t really understand because it had different colours.
I don’t know what should we do. Maybe we should just open our eyes and look what we did. But Russian people don’t
care about the world around them many people care only about themselves an that’s all.
So, the best idea is look around and try to do something good for our planet and for us and our children.
Comments
SUBSCALE 	MARK 	COMMENTARY
Content 	3
All content is relevant to the task but the target reader is on the whole informed rather than
fully informed as, the central question as to whether or not the problems can be solved has
not really been addressed.
The candidate discusses the environmental impact of transport and the cleanliness of rivers,
and provides one suggested solution for the problem of transport (They don’t go anywhere
by car one day a month). The writer’s opinion is clear in I think it could be very good if we
had a tradition like that.
No solutions are discussed for rivers and seas, and no third aspect of environmental
damage is provided.
Communicative
Achievement 3
The conventions of essay writing are used; there is an opening statement and a
development of the subject matter, with a conclusion at the end.
The register is suitably neutral for the most part, although the use of a colloquial yeah is not
consistent with the rest of the essay. The essay is written for the most part in an objective
way, but there is use of personal, subjective examples (Once I saw the river; I can’t make a
sigh), which lessen the impact of the bigger problems.
The target reader’s attention is held and straightforward ideas are communicated.
Organisation 	3
The text is generally well organised and coherent. It is separated into paragraphs and the
punctuation is generally used effectively, although there are some long sentences (And
because of that we have problems with atmospeer, air in my city and in all Russia is really
dirty and sometimes I can’t make a sigh because it smells around me and of course around
that cars on the road).
There is a variety of linking words (because; and; So; because of that) and some cohesive
devices such as referencing pronouns, relative clauses and rhetorical questions to connect
the ideas within the text.
Language 	3
There is a range of everyday vocabulary used appropriately, and although there are errors,
they do not impede communication (atmospeer; bycicle; sigh).
There is a range of simple and some more complex grammatical forms: past and present
verb forms are used with a good degree of control.
Writing Sample answers 	37
Paper 2

-- 39 of 90 --

Question 1
Candidate C
DEVELOPMENT VS ENVIRONMENT
If we surf the web looking for pollution and environmental catastrophes, we will find out that every country in the world
suffers them. This is a natural consequence of the struggle between development and environment.
If a country decided to live isolated from the rest of the world, living on what it can naturally grow and produce, it
surely wouldn’t be highly polluted. But we all want exotic food and technological items from all over the world, so we
have to pay the price.
Investing on electrical transport would benefit the environment a lot. Even more if this electricity came from a natural
source of energy like wind, rivers and solar boards. It’s difficult to achieve this because petrol companies will fight
against these actions.
We also have to take care of our rivers and seas. We all have heard about factories throwing highly toxic substances to
rivers, without minimizing their poisoning effects. A really strict law should be applied to fine these factories and make
them change their policy.
But what about ourselves? We also can do a lot! If, when possible, we bought larger packs of food, we would be
producing less rubbish. And this is only an example!
Comments
SUBSCALE 	MARK 	COMMENTARY
Content 	5
All content is relevant to the task and the target reader is fully informed.
Transport is discussed with suggestions of how using different forms of transport would help
the environment (Investing on electrical transport would benefit the environment a lot). The
candidate then evaluates the suggestion (It’s difficult to achieve this …).
Water pollution is described and a solution is offered (A really strict law should be applied
to fine these factories). The writer’s opinion is clear in the choice of modal should.
A third aspect (waste reduction) is introduced in the final paragraph with a suggestion
about how to achieve this (If, when possible, we bought larger packs of food …). The writer’s
opinion is expressed clearly (We also can do a lot!).
Communicative
Achievement 5
The conventions of the essay format are used effectively to hold the target reader’s
attention.
There is an introductory paragraph which outlines the issues in general terms, and the
concluding paragraph sums up in more concrete terms, what we, the readers can do to help.
The register is consistently appropriate and the subject matter is dealt with in an objective
manner, for example Investing on electrical transport; If a country decided.
Straightforward and complex ideas are communicated (It’s difficult to achieve this because
petrol companies will fight against these actions).
Organisation 	4
The essay is well organised and coherent, using a variety of cohesive devices.
The paragraphs are introduced in a variety of ways, using grammatical structures rather
than obvious linkers (If we surf the web; If a country decided; Investing on; We also have
to; But what about). More could be done to link across the paragraphs, to make them less
independent, but the overall effect is of a cohesive text.
Language 	5
There is a wide range of vocabulary, including less common lexis used appropriately
(environmental catastrophes; highly polluted; exotic food; highly toxic substances; minimizing
their poisoning effects; change their policy).
There is a range of simple and complex grammatical forms used with a good degree
of control and flexibility to convey certain ideas succinctly, for example, This is a natural
consequence of the struggle between development and environment; we all want exotic
food and technological items from all over the world, so we have to pay the price.
There are minimal errors which do not impede communication.
38

-- 40 of 90 --

Question 2
Candidate D
“Life of Buddah”: A Book Review
What would you do if you were born as a prince with all the exclusive fasilities to enjoy this material world? yes, most
of people will celebrate and enjoy every single right that they have as a son of a king. Beautiful women, money, parties
and all senses’ gratification stuff. Surprisingly, it didn’t work that way for little Gautama who in the future would be a
Buddah.
In the book “Life of Buddha”, it is told that Gautama was born as a prince. He got all the facilities to make him being
comfortable staying in the palace. The king didn’t allow him to get out from the palace for outside of the palace is the
place of real life happened.
One day, the king asked him to get married but the prince rejected it and decided to leave the palace instead. There,
he started his spiritual journey and later on had self realization and became a buddha.
This book is suitable for you who like to read about someone’s autobiography and life’s lesson. As a reader I can say
that I learn a lot from this book. High recommended as something to read before going to bed!
Comments
SUBSCALE 	MARK 	COMMENTARY
Content 	5
All the content is relevant and the target reader is fully informed.
The review gives details about a book which contains a character who does something
surprising (Gautama was born as a prince; (he) decided to leave the palace instead; (he)
had self realization and became a buddha).
The candidate recommends the book by explaining what they liked about it and saying who
would find it enjoyable.
Communicative
Achievement 3
The review uses the conventions of the communicative task to hold the reader’s attention.
The candidate introduces the topic of the book and the subject matter in an engaging
way, using a rhetorical question, then summarises some of the events in the narrative (In the
book; it is told that; One day, the king; later on).
Straightforward ideas are communicated. Information is given about some of the characters
and main events, and the writer concludes with their opinions of the book (This book is
suitable for; I can say that; High recommended as …).
Organisation 	3
The text is generally well organised and coherent. It moves from general information in
the introduction, to more specific details about the story in the next two paragraphs, and
concludes with an appropriate summary and opinion about the book. A variety of linking
words and cohesive devices are used in the text, including reference pronouns (it didn’t work
that way for little Gautama; he; him; One day; and; there; later on; This book).
Language 	3
A range of everyday vocabulary is used appropriately, and although there are some errors
(fasilities; all senses’ gratification stuff) there is also some good use of less common lexis
(started his spiritual journey).
Both simple and more complex grammatical forms are used with a good degree of control
(What would you do if you were born; who in the future would be a Buddah; before going to
bed).
Errors do not impede communication.
Writing Sample answers 	39
Paper 2

-- 41 of 90 --

Question 3
Candidate E
The most useful thing I have ever learned
The most useful thing i have learned is surely speaking English. I’ve been studing English for nine years till now. I used
to take regular classes in these language which i found very interesting. Also, i learn English in school, my teacher
is awesome but strict, so i have to study constantly. But most of all, i learn English, watching movies, TV shows. Allso
cartoons when i was younger. When i came across a movie which was subtitled i turned the subtitle off. I enjoy wathing
TV and movies on English.
English is the most spoken language across the world. It is studied all over the world. In order to get in a conversation
with a stranger from other country, you need to speak English. I’m a swimmer, so i go on competissions in many
countries, and in all of those countries i speak English. I want to study abroad when i finish highschool, so i’ll defenetly
need English.
All in all, i enjoy speaking it, writing it, and I’m very glad I got to learn it, i find it very useful.
Comments
SUBSCALE 	MARK 	COMMENTARY
Content 	5
All content is relevant and the target reader is fully informed.
The article describes the most useful thing which the writer has learned: speaking English,
and explains why it is useful (English is the most spoken language across the world; i go on
competissions in many countries … in all of those countries i speak English).
The second aspect of the task is discussed in detail and various methods of learning are
described (I used to take regular classes; i learn English in school; watching movies, TV shows.
Allso cartoons).
Communicative
Achievement 3
The conventions of writing an article are used appropriately to hold the reader’s
attention. The tone is friendly and informative and the topic is clearly introduced and
developed through the paragraphs. The subject is appropriate for the English website
and straightforward ideas are communicated. The conclusion summarises the candidate’s
opinions and rounds off the article, re-stating the main points of the question (All in all … I’m
very glad I got to learn it, i find it very useful).
Organisation 	3
The text is generally well organised and coherent. There is a clear structure to the whole
text, an introduction of the topic, paragraphs dealing with different aspects, and a neat
conclusion.
There are a variety of linking words and cohesive devices used to connect ideas across
sentences and paragraphs (which i found; Also; so; But most of all; It is studied; In order to;
those countries; All in all).
Language 	3
A range of everyday vocabulary is used appropriately and some attempts are made to use
less common lexis (awesome but strict; study constantly; came across; subtitle).
The writer uses both simple and some more complex grammatical forms with a good degree
of control.
There are some slips with plural/singular pronouns (these language) and some prepositions
(on English; other country), as well as a few errors with spelling (studing; Allso; wathing;
competissions) but these do not impede communication.
40

-- 42 of 90 --

Question 4
Candidate F
Dear David,
I’m glad your friends are visiting my area soon for a week’s touring holiday. I have many ideas what I can show them
and tell about.
In my opinion the best way to travel around will be by bike because of small distances between the places and views are
amazing.
My area includes also beautiful Baltic Sea which many tourist visit especially in summer. Your friends could sunbath or
swim if they would like but the water is quite cold in this season. Beautiful sightseeing of sunrise is the best memorise!
You wrote that they are intrested in history of my local area. That’s great! We have museum of our local history where I
can go with them. Tickets are not so expensive and I can think about some discount.
What do you think about it? Would you mind send me some your ideas?
I look forward to hearing from you soon.
Best wishes,
Sam
Comments
SUBSCALE 	MARK 	COMMENTARY
Content 	5
All content is relevant and the target reader is fully informed.
The candidate responds to the questions that have been asked and gives details about the
places David’s friends can visit (Baltic Sea; museum of our local history).
The email explains that the best mode of transport is bike, because of small distances
between the places and views are amazing.
Communicative
Achievement 3
The conventions of the task are used to hold the reader’s attention. The response is written
in an informal, friendly but polite tone, which is appropriate for the task. The conventions
for opening and closing an email of this type are used appropriately, as well as standard
phrases for communication to a friend (You wrote that; What do you think about it; I look
forward to hearing from you soon; Best wishes).
Straightforward ideas are communicated. Information and advice are given and the overall
tone is enthusiastic and positive.
Organisation 	4
The text is well organised and coherent, and uses the input email well to structure the
response (I’m glad your friends are visiting; I have many ideas; In my opinion; My area
includes also; which many; Your friends could; You wrote that; That’s great).
A variety of linking words (because of) and cohesive devices, such as substitution and
referencing, are used across some sentences and to connect simple ideas.
Language 	3
There is a range of everyday vocabulary used which is relevant to the topic (beautiful Baltic
Sea; many tourist visit; in this season; Tickets are not so expensive).
There is a range of simple and some complex grammatical forms used with a good degree
of control, e.g. modals, present and past forms of verbs.
There are some errors (My area includes also; send me some your ideas) and some spelling
mistakes (sunbath; memorise; intrested) but these do not impede communication.
Writing Sample answers 	41
Paper 2

-- 43 of 90 --

Paper-based sample test
2
Part 1
You
 must
 answer this question.
 Write your answer in
 140 – 190
 words in an appropriate style on the
separate answer sheet.
	______________________________________________________________________________	
1 
In your English class you have been talking about the fashion industry.
 
Now, your English
teacher has asked you to write an essay.
	Write an essay using
 all the notes and giving reasons for your point of view.
Some people say the fashion industry has a bad effect on people’s lives.
Do you agree?
Notes
Write about:
1. whether people’s appearance is important
2. the price of clothes
3. …………………… (your own idea)
3
Part 2
Write an answer to
 one
 of the questions
 2 – 4
 in this part. Write your answer in
 140 – 190
 words in
an appropriate style on the separate answer sheet.
 Put the question number in the box at the top
of the answer sheet.
	______________________________________________________________________________	
2
A group of British teachers is going to visit your college for two days. The aim of their trip
	is to learn about how technology is used in education in your country.
	You have been asked to write a report for the group leader. Your report should:
• 
include information about how technology is used to teach different subjects
• 
recommend which lessons the teachers should watch to see technology being
	used.
Write your
 report
.
3 
You see this announcement on an English-language website:	
Articles wanted
MUSIC AND ME
When do you listen to music? How do you choose what to listen to at different times?
Write us an article answering these questions.
	The best articles will be posted on our website.
Write your
 article
.
4 
You see this announcement on an English-language website:	
Reviews wanted
Courses
Have you been on a course recently?
 Please tell us about it!
 It could be any type of
course, like a sports course, photography course or language course.
 What were the
classes like?
 What was the most interesting thing you learned?
 Would you recommend
the course to other people?
	The best reviews will be published in next month’s magazine.	
Write your
 review
.
42

-- 44 of 90 --

Sample answers and comments for the paper-based sample test
Question 1
Candidate A
In today’s world, the fashion industry has a strong importance in people’s lives. The fashion industry say to the society
what to wear and creates new types of clothes all the time.
Some people claim that the fashion industry has a bad effect on people’s lives, they say that the fashion industry
creates clothes that the society has to wear. Furthermore, the clothes’ price is extremely high and people, who can’t
afford it, should not be in the society.
In the other hand, the fashion industry guide the people to be in a good appearance, because, nowadays, the
appearance of the person is more important than the person itself.
In my opinion, the fashion industry doesn’t has a bad influence on people’s lives. It’s something which was created to
help people what to wear.
Comments
SUBSCALE 	MARK 	COMMENTARY
Content 	5
All content is relevant and the target reader is fully informed.
The essay discusses the role of the fashion industry and expresses some negative aspects
(nowadays, the appearance of the person is more important than the person itself) and
also cost (the clothes’ price is extremely high).
The candidate also expresses their own idea, suggesting that the fashion industry has a lot
of influence on people (say to the society what to wear).
The candidate concludes the essay with an opinion, which sums up the main points made.
Communicative
Achievement 2
Some of the conventions of essay writing are used appropriately. The register and tone are
consistently formal and there are some expressions which are appropriate for an essay (In
today’s world; Some people claim; Furthermore; In my opinion). There is also an introduction
and a conclusion.
Although straightforward ideas are communicated, the target reader’s attention is not
always held. For example, the final paragraph attempts to sum up the main points, but the
ideas are not clearly expressed.
Organisation 	2
The text is generally well organised and coherent. There is a clear structure to the text with
an introduction, main body and conclusion. Paragraphs are used for the development of
ideas.
The text is connected using linking words and a limited number of cohesive devices, some of
which are misused. More use of pronouns would limit the repetition of key phrases.
Language 	2
There is a range of everyday, topic-specific vocabulary, which is used appropriately (creates
new types of clothes; Some people claim; extremely high; is more important than).
Simple grammatical forms are used with a good degree of control, although the use of verbs
in the third person is not consistent. There are attempts to express ideas using a range of
grammatical forms, passives and modals for example, but these are less successful (people,
who can’t afford it, should not be in the society; the fashion industry guide the people to be
in a good appearance; It’s something which was created to help people what to wear).
Errors are noticeable but meaning can still be determined.
Writing Sample answers and comments for the paper-based sample test 	43
Paper 2

-- 45 of 90 --

Question 1
Candidate B
Fashion industry is very a discussed subject nowadays: they create and design new clothes everyday in order to satisfy
some people needs.
There are many people who claim that the fashion industry is important and good for society. According to them, this
industry design beautiful clothes and thanks to that every person can wear shirts, trousers or any acessory which is on
today’s fashion.
On the other hand, the fashion industry in some people opinion, controls the market of clothes and because of that
they can’t wear what they want to. In addition, the industry can increase the price of clothes, forcing people who don’t
want to be “old-fashioned” to buy and pay a large amount of money to keep “beautiful”
In my opinion, we can’t let the fashion industry decide what we must or musn’t wear. We shouldn’t judge people for its
appearance, because that is not important. We must wear whatever we like, want and feel confortable with.
Comments
SUBSCALE 	MARK 	COMMENTARY
Content 	5
All content is relevant to the task and the target reader is fully informed.
The candidate discusses the importance of appearance in terms of fashion (this industry
design beautiful clothes and thanks to that …) and concludes that We shouldn’t judge
people for its appearance.
The negative aspect of the price of clothes is mentioned and an opinion given on how this
affects people’s choice (forcing people … to buy and pay a large amount of money to keep
“beautiful”).
A third aspect states how choice for consumers is limited due to the fashion industry’s
control over design and the market (the fashion industry in some people opinion, controls
the market of clothes).
Communicative
Achievement 3
The conventions of essay writing are used appropriately. There is an introduction, topic
paragraph and a conclusion. The register is appropriate for the task, using generally neutral
language to discuss both positive and negative aspects of the question.
Straightforward ideas are communicated, using some appropriate language (in order to;
According to them; the industry can increase) to introduce the ideas, and to hold the target
reader’s attention.
Organisation 	4
The essay is well organised and coherent. There is a clear overall structure and the
ideas are linked across sentences and paragraphs using referencing, substitution and
paraphrasing to avoid repetition.
There are a variety of appropriate linking words and cohesive devices (many people
who; According to them; this industry; thanks to that; On the other hand; In addition; In my
opinion).
Language 	3
A range of everyday, topic-specific vocabulary is used appropriately (to satisfy some people
needs; good for society; controls the market; forcing people) but some errors do occur with
less common lexis and expressions (on today’s fashion).
A range of simple and some complex grammatical forms is used with a good degree of
control (can increase the price of clothes, forcing people who don’t want to be).
There are some repeated errors with prepositions and third person verbs, but these do not
impede communication.
44

-- 46 of 90 --

Question 1
Candidate C
The society we live today is characterised by technology in constant development, fast speed processes, information
travelling and getting to people at a blink of an eye and a complex web of social networking. In this context, the fashion
industry is becoming increasingly important and having a more and more paramount role in our lives.
On one hand, the fashion industry is undeniably a source of profit and income. It hires millions of people all over the
world and generates millions of dollars every year. Furthermore, such profitable business is also believed to be able to
spread and make known the culture of a people, encouraging and enhancing a better understanding of each other.
Nevertheless, for those who are neither impressed nor motivated by numbers and figures, the fashion industry is seen
as one which segregates people, isolating those who not fit their laws and commands. It is stated that people place
too much importance on appearance and the material, world, sadly true, and the fashion industry just spurs on such
situation. Moreover, not only are the costs of fashion item unrealistically high, it is thought to be a money better spent
on more pressing issues, such as poverty and hunger.
I do believe that the fashion industry, as it is today, has a harmful effect, because it values a minority of people in
detriment to the majority. However, it has such a wide reach that, it put into a good use, it can save lives.
Comments
SUBSCALE 	MARK 	COMMENTARY
Content 	5
All content is relevant to the task and the target reader is fully informed.
The candidate presents a balanced argument, discussing their own idea first that the
fashion industry is important as it provides jobs and income for a huge number of people.
The essay then discusses the negative aspect of the fashion industry in relation to
appearance (the fashion industry is seen as one which segregates people; people place too
much importance on appearance).
Finally, the high cost of fashion is mentioned in relation to the price of clothes and it is
suggested that money could be better spent on social issues rather than on fashion.
Communicative
Achievement 5
The conventions of essay writing are used effectively to hold the target reader’s attention.
The register and tone are consistently appropriate and there is a range of suitable
expressions which introduce both positive and negative aspects of the question, which are
balanced throughout the essay.
Straightforward and more complex ideas are communicated, making links between the
importance of fashion in consumers’ lives and how the fashion industry affects people,
communities and wider society (the fashion industry is undeniably a source of profit
and income. It hires millions of people all over the world; it values a minority of people in
detriment to the majority).
Organisation 	5
The essay is well organised and coherent. There is a clear overall structure and the ideas
are linked effectively across paragraphs and sentences through the use of paraphrasing,
substitution, ellipsis and referencing (In this context; It hires; such profitable business is also
believed; Nevertheless, for those who; sadly true; such situation; not only are).
Organisational patterns are used to generally good effect, for example links are made
between fashion and industry, fashion and finance and fashion and society throughout the
text, making clear connections between the separate aspects.
Language 	5
There is a range of vocabulary, including less common lexis which is used appropriately in
most cases (is characterised by; at a blink of an eye; paramount role; undeniably; the culture
of a people; enhancing; neither impressed nor motivated; segregates; isolating; in detriment
to).
A range of simple and complex grammatical forms is used with control and flexibility to
express more complex ideas.
Although there are some errors, these mainly occur when more ambitious language is
attempted and do not impede communication.
Writing Sample answers and comments for the paper-based sample test 	45
Paper 2

-- 47 of 90 --

Question 2
Candidate D
Use of Technology in education
Introduction
This report is intended to inform how technology is used in common lessons and recommend the most interesting
technical developments to be seen. I conducted a survey among teachers and students in order to find out what is
prefered to be used by them.
Technology in different subjects
The majority of the people claimed that the best thing were computers and interactive boards. I was given these
reasons:
1 They provide an oportunity to make the lessons more enjoyable
2 Everybody is able to find information on the internet whenever they want to
3 Computer presentations can be easily given
However, use of another technical developments vary among students and teachers depending on which subject they
focus on. For instance, people were interested in Science mentioned these points:
– newly equipped chemical lab with its recently purchased substances
– equipment suitable for teaching Physics (e.g. digital watches, laser)
Recommendations
For most of the people who I asked for their reply were really important computers and interactive boards in the
classrooms. I would therefore recommend seeing this. On the other hand, if you are interested in particular subjects
you ought to see their specialised classrooms with a variety of modern technical developments, too.
Comments
SUBSCALE 	MARK 	COMMENTARY
Content 	5
All content is relevant and the target reader is fully informed.
The report gives information about which technology is used for teaching purposes around
the school (interactive boards; computers) and specifically in science (newly equipped
chemical lab).
The report has a clear recommendation at the end and gives options about what would be
good for the reader to see: either going to see what the students have decided is important
(computers and interactive boards) or what the reader has a specific interest in (if you are
interested in particular subjects you ought to see their specialised classrooms).
Communicative
Achievement 4
The conventions of report writing are used effectively to hold the target reader’s attention.
The register is neutral and information is given in an objective tone, making good use of the
passive voice (This report is intended; developments to be seen; can be easily given). The
format of the report is effective in using headings, sub-headings and a numbering system in
the second section to highlight important aspects.
Straightforward ideas are communicated.
Organisation 	4
The text is well organised and coherent, and the overall organisation of the report is
effective in helping to communicate the main points.
A variety of appropriate linking words are used (However; which; For instance).
Language 	3
A range of everyday vocabulary is used appropriately and there is some good use of
topic-specific vocabulary (technical developments; conducted a survey; interactive boards;
provide an oportunity; I would therefore recommend).
A range of simple and some more complex grammatical forms is used, particularly different
passive structures. Some errors occur when attempting more complex ideas (For most of the
people who I asked for their reply were really important computers).
However, the errors do not impede communication.
46

-- 48 of 90 --

Question 3
Candidate E
I always listen to music, wherever I go I have my headphones on my ears. Listening to what I like satisfy’s me and makes
me calm all the time. When the bus is taking me to school I listen to the music so I could wake up.
I love to listen to classical music, jazz, rock, hip-hop, dubstep, pop music. But I can’t listen to Serbian folk, any rap,
techno or K-pop music. It just anoy’s me. Of all the songs I can listen, I adore pop and dubstep the most. I’m glad that my
parents listened to rock and ninetees serbian songs which I like to listen sometimes.
Everybody has his own taste for music, somebody likes rock, somebody likes rap or something else, and that’s ok. I’m
proud of myself that I’m listening to what I’m listening.
Comments
SUBSCALE 	MARK 	COMMENTARY
Content 	4
All content is relevant. The article discusses music, describes when the writer listens to music,
and explains personal musical preferences.
However, the second question is not fully addressed. We learn about the music the writer
likes but not about how certain music is chosen at different times. The writer does mention
When the bus is taking me to school I listen to the music so I could wake up but doesn’t say
what sort of music it is.
This second point is not fully developed but the target reader is on the whole informed
about this aspect.
Communicative
Achievement 3
The article generally follows the conventions of the task. The subject is personal to the writer
and relevant examples are given from personal experience. The article is written in a tone
that is appropriate for a general audience and holds the reader’s attention.
Straightforward ideas are communicated (I love to listen to; I can’t listen to; Everybody has
his own taste for music) despite the relatively simple language used.
Organisation 	2
The article is generally well organised and coherent at sentence level. The text is separated
into paragraphs and basic linking words are used to connect the ideas within sentences
(and; When; But; it) but there are fewer cohesive devices used to connect ideas across the
whole text.
When presenting musical preferences, the information is presented in a list format,
rather than comparing or contrasting different styles, with cohesive devices to show the
relationship between the writer and the music described.
Language 	2
Everyday vocabulary is used appropriately and there is a range of vocabulary connected
with musical styles (classical; jazz; rock; hip-hop; dubstep; pop; Serbian folk; rap; techno;
K-pop).
Simple grammatical forms are used with a good degree of control, but there is a lack of
range with the present tense being most frequently used.
Errors do not impede communication.
Writing Sample answers and comments for the paper-based sample test 	47
Paper 2

-- 49 of 90 --

Paper-based answer sheet
Answer Sheet Page 1	
Part One Answer
You must write within the grey lines.



Answer Sheet Page 2	
Part One Answer
You must write within the grey lines.



48

-- 50 of 90 --

Answer Sheet Page 3	
Part Two Answer
You must write within the grey lines.
Write your question number here:



Answer Sheet Page 4	
Part Two Answer
You must write within the grey lines.



Writing Paper-based answer sheet 	49
Paper 2

-- 51 of 90 --

Listening
Paper 3:
Listening tasks
approximately 40 mins (including 2 minutes to check answers in the digital test,
and 5 minutes to transfer your answers in the paper-based test)
PART NUMBER OF
QUESTIONS
NUMBER
OF MARKS TASK TYPES 	FOCUS 	FORMAT
1 	8 	8 Multiple choice
The focus is on genre,
identifying speaker feeling,
attitude, topic, opinion,
purpose, agreement
between speakers, gist and
detail.
A series of short unrelated
extracts, of approximately
30 seconds each, from
monologues or exchanges
between interacting
speakers. There is one
multiple-choice question
per text, each with three
options.
2 	10 	10 Sentence
completion
The focus is on detail,
identifying specific
information and stated
opinion.
A monologue lasting 3–4
minutes. Candidates are
required to complete the
sentences with information
heard on the recording.
3 	5 	5 Multiple matching
The focus is on identifying
speaker feeling, attitude,
detail, gist and opinion.
Five short related
monologues of
approximately 30 seconds
each. There are five
questions which require
the selection of the correct
option from a list of eight.
4 	7 	7 Multiple choice
The focus is on identifying
opinion, attitude, detail,
gist, main idea and specific
information.
An interview or exchange
between two speakers and
lasting 3–4 minutes. There
are seven 3-option multiple-
choice questions.
TOTAL 30 	30
50

-- 52 of 90 --

Tips for preparing learners for the Listening test
 Students’ ability to understand what they hear can
improve dramatically if they are regularly exposed
to audio materials: the more English they hear, the
more readily they will pick out individual words, then
phrases and sentences. A daily learning programme
which includes a ‘hearing English’ component from
audio or video recordings will help prepare your
students for the Listening test. This should include a
range of voices, accents and styles of delivery.
 Classroom discussion activities provide an invaluable
source of listening practice.
 Encourage students to identify the stressed syllables
and words in a listening text (the ones which carry the
message) rather than trying to listen for every single
syllable.
 In order to build up confidence, get your students
to read a summary of what they are going to hear
before they listen to the full text.
 Make students aware of how much they themselves
bring to a listening task. For example, discuss with
them what they can expect to hear, e.g. names and
places when they turn on the news, or numbers and
times if they listen to announcements.
 Try changing the focus of the tasks they do in class;
sometimes ask your students to listen for specific
things, sometimes for the overall gist.
 Students should practise listening to and reading the
question, so that they are sure they understand what
they are listening for and what they have to do.
 Remind your students that they should use the time
allowed before each recording to read through all
the questions carefully, so they are prepared for what
they hear.
 Students should be advised that the information on
the question paper is there to help them follow as
they listen.
 Students should get used to answering all the
questions, even if they are not sure of the correct
answer – they’ve probably understood more than
they think.
 Students shouldn’t be distracted by individual words
and phrases in Parts 1, 3 and 4. They should listen to
the whole message.
 Students should know when to stop concentrating on
a question which they are finding difficult, so that they
don’t miss the next question.
Completing the digital test
(digital test only)
• 	Candidates mark or type all their answers directly
onto the computer.
• 	Candidates may take pens and pencils and water
in a clear, see-through bottle into the exam room,
but nothing else (including bags and anything
electronic).
• 	Candidates should listen carefully to the instructions
which the invigilator gives and follow the instructions
on the computer screen.
• 	Candidates should check that they can hear the test
properly. If they cannot hear the recording, they
should raise their hand and inform the invigilator
immediately.
• 	There is a timer on the screen which tells candidates
how much time they have left.
• 	Candidates may make notes on paper during the
exam, for example if they want to write down two
alternative answers where they are unsure. They
must leave these notes on their desk at the end of
the exam.
• 	Make sure students have plenty of practice listening
on headphones. They can do this individually
through homework tasks but they should also have
some practice in class as a group.
Completing the answer sheet
(paper-based test only)
• 	Candidates doing the paper-based test should
practise transferring their answers to the answer
sheet.
• 	All answers must go on an answer sheet.
• 	Candidates should write their answers on the
question paper as they listen.
• 	Candidates then have 5 minutes at the end of the
test to copy these answers onto the answer sheet.
• 	Candidates should use a pencil to complete the
answer sheet.
• 	For Parts 1, 3 and 4, candidates shade a lozenge on
the answer sheet to show their answer. For Part 2,
candidates write their answers on the answer sheet.
Remind students that they should write their answers
for Part 2 clearly when they copy them onto the
answer sheet, using CAPITAL LETTERS.
Listening Preparing learners 	51
Paper 3

-- 53 of 90 --

Advice by task
This section shows example screenshots from the B2 First Digital exam. To access the complete digital
sample test, please scan the QR code, or go to camengli.sh/3YMtIM6
Listening Part 1
THE TASK
f Part 1 tests candidates’ ability to listen for gist, detail, function, purpose, attitude, opinion, genre, agreement, etc. in a
series of unrelated short texts.
f The eight questions in this part of the paper are each preceded by a context sentence which is read out on the
recording. The candidates then have time to read each question before hearing the recording twice.
HOW TO APPROACH THE TASK
f Play real-life snippets to your students – e.g. a teacher’s announcement, a weather report – and ask them to identify the
text type and topic.
f Candidates can be distracted by hearing words or phrases in the text which appear in one of the incorrect options.
They need to practise spotting such mismatches, and understanding why they are wrong.
f Try using a variety of short practice texts. The questions should range from people to places, from opinions to events,
from relationships to reasons. Provide the text and options, but get the students to write the questions themselves.
For example:
You overhear a student talking about a film he watched last night.
(Students suggest a question)
Options
A: a car
B: a family
C: a robbery
Text
Student: It’s so difficult to get everyone to agree about what we’re going to watch on TV. Is it the same in your house?
Last night, for example, there were three films on. There was that one with the four sisters and their mother, during
the American Civil War. Do you know the one I mean? I’d been looking forward to seeing it for ages. But the others had
different ideas. Jessie was eager to see some cartoon thing about a car, but Lizzie wanted a thriller about two bank
robbers. And rather than give in to each other, they both went with my choice – actually we all enjoyed it.
52

-- 54 of 90 --

Listening Part 2
THE TASK
f Part 2 tests candidates’ ability to listen and locate specific information and stated opinion, from a single long text, and
produce written answers by completing gapped sentences. Texts may be broadcasts, talks or classroom presentations.
f The 10 questions in this part of the paper take the form of incomplete sentences. The questions follow the order of the
information in the listening text. Candidates need to listen to the text and complete the sentences.
f Answers will not exceed three words in length. The word, number or phrase required will be heard on the recording and
will not need to be changed in any way. Minor spelling errors are not penalised, but the candidate’s intention must be
clear and unambiguous. Candidates will not be asked to spell words which are above B2 First level.
HOW TO APPROACH THE TASK
f Preparation for this part should include lots of exposure to simple gap-fill listening exercises.
f Students need to get into the habit of reading not only the text in front of the gap, but also the text which follows the
gap, which may affect their answer. You can reassure them that the tested items come in the same order as they are
heard on the recording.
f Candidates sometimes write too much, either by including unnecessary detail, or by trying to rephrase what they hear
on the recording. Irrelevant detail can spoil what would otherwise have been a correct answer. Candidates should be
reminded that no changes are required to the key information, that no answer will need more than three words, and
that in many cases they will need only one or two words.
Listening Advice by task 	53
Paper 3

-- 55 of 90 --

Listening Part 3
THE TASK
f In Part 3, the focus is on the skill of listening for general gist, detail, attitude, opinion etc. Candidates need to match an
option to the correct speaker.
f In this part, candidates listen to five short texts, each with a different speaker, which are related in some way. For
example, they may all be speaking about aspects of the same subject, such as travel, or about similar experiences, such
as journeys. Candidates choose the option from a set of eight, that matches what each speaker says.
HOW TO APPROACH THE TASK
f It is really important for candidates to use the time they are given to read through the questions, since they need to
have a clear idea of what they are listening for. Students could practise doing the exercise with the tapescript, so that
they can see the kind of matching required. Other relevant exercises would be any which practise ‘saying the same thing
in a different way’.
f If your students are at all unsure about an answer, they should wait for the second listening before making their final
decision. Making too quick a decision may mean that a candidate ‘uses up’ an answer that belongs to another speaker.
54

-- 56 of 90 --

Listening Part 4
THE TASK
f In Part 4, the main focus is on testing the candidates’ ability to listen for opinion, attitude, gist, main idea and specific
information.
f The seven questions in this part of the paper take the form of 3-option multiple-choice questions. The questions follow
the order of the interaction on the recording. Texts are usually interviews or discussions featuring two speakers.
HOW TO APPROACH THE TASK
f In preparing for multiple-choice questions, it can be useful for students to answer questions in their own words before
they look at the options; they can then decide which option seems to correspond most closely to their own answer.
Listening Advice by task 	55
Paper 3

-- 57 of 90 --

Download the audio files for the sample paper here:
cambridgeenglish.org/exams-and-tests/first/preparation
Audio script for digital test
This is the B2 First Certificate in English Listening test.
I’m going to give you the instructions for this test.
I’ll introduce each part of the test and give you time to look
at the questions.
At the start of each piece you’ll hear this sound:
You’ll hear each piece twice.
Remember, while you are listening, write your answers on
the question paper. You will have 5 minutes at the end of
the test to copy your answers onto the separate answer
sheet.
There will now be a pause. Please ask any questions now,
because you must not speak during the test.
Now open your question paper and look at Part 1.
You will hear people talking in eight different situations. For
Questions 1–8, choose the best answer (A, B or C).
1: You hear a message on a telephone answering
machine.
Oh hi it’s me, John. Sorry to miss you – you must’ve already
left for work. Look, I wondered if you wanted to come
away for the weekend. There’ll be about 10 of us including
someone called Sam Brent who says he was at college with
you – and he remembers that you were brilliant at rock and
roll! They’ve decided it’ll be on October 9, Friday night till
Sunday. Anyway, I’ll put the details in the post. I know you’re
busy at the moment, so don’t feel you have to come, but just
let me know one way or the other when you can. Talk to you
soon. Bye.
Now listen again.
2: You hear two people talking about a water-sports
centre.
F: So how did you like the new sports centre?
M: Well, there’s a wide choice of things to do … It’s just that
their advertisements said something to suit all the family.
I wish they’d had water games for the under fives. There
was nothing really suitable for them. But you can learn
to windsurf or sail, and you have the freedom to go
anywhere in the lake …
F: Isn’t that a bit dangerous?
M: Not really. Nobody’s allowed in the water without a life-
jacket, and a rescue boat is on hand all the time.
F: Sounds great.
M: It was.
Now listen again.
3: You hear a professional tennis player talking about
her career.
Int: 	Are you ever annoyed by interviewers?
Star: Well, I’m often asked about the financial side of
things. I don’t mind, but I can honestly say, for many
tournaments, I don’t even know what the prize money
is. I just focus on playing to my full potential. They must
find that answer disappointing! No, the ones I have
a problem with are those who assume it’s all about
partying and gossip. I wish they’d ask about the real
lifestyle; practising day in, day out, and getting from
tournament to tournament. I probably do around a
hundred long-haul flights a year. It sounds exciting,
but it wipes you out and actually ruins your social life!
Now listen again.
4: You hear a poet talking about his work.
I’ve been slowly writing more and more poems for kids over
the last few years. Talking to young people in schools, which
I’ve been doing for some time now, reinforces my belief
that they need and want the same range of subjects that
older people do – relationships, work, family, etc. Often it’s
something that only emerges after my poems are finished,
but quite a few of them in my new collection were first
thought of as poems for adults, until I realised that they
might work just as well, or better, for kids. But I hope it’s a
book that adults will enjoy too.
Now listen again.
5: You hear two people talking about a programme they
saw on TV.
F: Did you watch that programme about the Gobi Desert
last night? I thought it’d be really interesting because it’s
a part of the world I know very little about.
M: The photography was brilliant, wasn’t it?
F: Yes, you could really feel how harsh the life was there.
M: Overwhelmingly grey, I thought. It’d be hard to feel
cheerful living in that landscape.
F: It was a bit short on facts though, wasn’t it?
M: I don’t think it was that kind of programme. They just
wanted you to be amazed at the fantastic landscape. I
guess that’s why there wasn’t much commentary.
F: You’re right. I hadn’t thought of that.
Now listen again.
6: You hear two people talking about an ice-hockey
game they’ve just seen.
M: So your first live ice-hockey game. Glad you came?
F: Well, I wouldn’t have missed it for the world, but it was so
cold – I had no idea that it would be like that. I wish I’d
brought my thicker coat!
M: That’s normal! At least it was a really exciting game – our
team was doing much better than usual.
F: Well, perhaps that accounts for the noise! I knew it
would be loud, but it was incredible.
M: What do you expect? We have to support them!
56

-- 58 of 90 --

F: Well I can say I’ve done it – just don’t expect to see me
here next week …!
Now listen again.
7: You overhear two friends talking about a restaurant.
M: I can see why people really rate the place.
F: Yeah. They really know how to bring out the flavours in
the different dishes. They also put a lot of thought into
combining unusual ingredients. And as a restaurant
it’s not too stuffy and formal. It’s got a really lively feel
about it.
M: Perhaps a little too lively. It was quite hard to hear each
other above the din. I’m not sure it’d be the place to
come for a romantic dinner. Great food though, and so
visually appealing on the plate.
F: They’ve made a lot of effort with that. It really adds to
the experience, doesn’t it?
Now listen again.
8: You hear a man talking on the radio.
As a result of heavy snow, there has been major disruption
to rail services this morning. A number of breakdowns have
been reported in the west, with people stranded on some
trains. In this region blizzard conditions are making driving
conditions hazardous. A severely restricted train service will
be operating within the next few hours into the capital and
delays are expected on all lines in the south of the country.
In the north, there is some snow, but services have been
able to continue, with only a few cancellations reported.
Now listen again.
That is the end of Part 1.
Now turn to Part 2.
You will hear a woman called Angela Thomas, who works for
a wildlife organisation, talking about the spectacled bear.
For Questions 9–18, complete the sentences with a word or
short phrase.
You now have 45 seconds to look at Part 2.
Thanks for inviting me tonight. As you know, my main interest
is in conservation and I’m lucky enough to work with lots
of different organisations looking after animals both in
captivity and in the wild. I’d been fascinated by all kinds
of bears for a long time before I started working in this
field. But it was the spectacled bear that really attracted
me – some people find it appealing because of its size and
shape, and it’s less well known than other types of bear, but
for me I thought it was such a great name! It comes from the
patches of yellowish fur around the bear’s eyes which grow
in a sort of circle shape, like glasses, although these golden
markings vary greatly from one bear to another and may
not be limited to the eyes – they can extend as far as the
bear’s cheeks or even chest.
I’d like to explain what we know about this bear, and why
I find it so fascinating. It’s the only survivor of a type of
bear that once ranged across America during the last Ice
Age. We thought that it was only found in certain places in
Venezuela and Chile, but I was thrilled to read some reports
that suggested it might also be living in northern parts of
Argentina and eastern Panama.
It’s quite difficult to find spectacled bears in the wild
because they are quite shy animals, and tend to live in a
wide variety of habitats, which can range from dry coastal
deserts to high mountain areas above 4,000 metres.
They are most commonly found in forests, though. Being
such timid animals they tend to come out at night, which is
another thing that makes them difficult to see, though, like
me, you may be surprised to learn that they don’t sleep all
through the winter as many other types of bear do.
We’re not sure about the actual number of spectacled
bears that remain in the wild, but it’s been estimated that
there are only about 2,400 still around. The bears are
endangered not so much because they are hunted by other
animals, but what I find really sad is the fact that humans
destroy their habitat. Spectacled bears are quite small
compared with other bears, and of course they do have
other enemies – these mostly include mountain lions and
jaguars – but they remain a smaller threat.
The bears are primarily vegetarian, and their normal diet
is tree bark and berries. On rare occasions though they
eat honey, which I thought was just something in children’s
books. I was interested to find that they are incredibly good
climbers, and one thing I found really funny is that they’ve
been known to sit up a tree for days – they make a platform
– why? – I couldn’t guess, but they’re waiting for fruit to
ripen so they can eat it! It’s quite surprising that although
they rarely eat meat they have extremely strong jaws
and wide, flat teeth. Very occasionally they do eat meat –
something like birds or insects though they like small mice
best if they can get them!
We’re really trying to make people more aware of the
bears, and we’ve made a television series about one man’s
efforts to make people understand the dangers facing the
animals. He spent a long time in Peru studying them, and
has published a very funny diary of his time there. I hope
everyone will read it, and support our efforts to help these
fascinating creatures!
So are there any questions?
Now you will hear Part 2 again.
Now listen again.
That is the end of Part 2.
Now turn to Part 3.
You will hear five short extracts in which people are talking
about their visit to a city. For Questions 19–23, choose from
the list (A–H) what each speaker liked most about the city
they visited. Use the letters only once. There are three extra
letters which you do not need to use.
You now have 30 seconds to look at Part 3.
Speaker 1: We spent a day exploring the shops and
markets in the city, and bought some souvenirs.
Then we wanted to see some of the area
outside the city, and discovered it was easy to
Listening Audio script 	57
Paper 3

-- 59 of 90 --

get to loads of places by train, including the
mountains, where we were told there were
great hostels. You can do bushwalks out there
and apparently the scenery is stunning. But it
can be dangerous – we were warned to have
the right gear and tell other people where we
were going. So we decided to give it a miss.
Anyway, we weren’t short of things to do in the
city! We were spoilt for choice.
Speaker 2: We were pretty tired when we first arrived so
we were glad just to relax. We’d booked late
and I have to say that the room wasn’t the
best I’ve stayed in. But we had a view of the
lake, which was a real treat – we were really
impressed by the forests and mountains around
the city. We made good use of the swimming
pool, though we were too lazy to go to the
famous markets. We didn’t take advantage
of all the shows either. Lots of people told us
how good they were so that was a pity. And
the theatres themselves were supposed to be
impressive.
Speaker 3: One of my main ambitions was to see inside
the big concert hall – and in fact we managed
to get in to a concert there, which was pretty
special. The acoustics were amazing! The city
was divided by a river, and getting round had
its problems, especially as we didn’t really
understand the city plan. The best way was the
ferries – I was really impressed that they were
always on time and provided good views in the
city. The trams were good too, and the local
commuters seemed happy to chat to us and
give us ideas for the best things to do and see.
We didn’t have time to do everything, though.
Speaker 4: Before we went we couldn’t decide where
to stay – so many people recommended
different places, and there seemed to be
loads of different and unusual possibilities,
like old traditional farms converted into guest
houses – so we decided to move around and
try something different every couple of nights.
That worked out really well, and they were all
excellent. Although we’d been told that getting
round on the buses was easy and cheap in the
city, we decided to rent a car so that we could
get out into the countryside – we didn’t want
to miss out on the views driving along by the
ocean.
Speaker 5: Even though we had a city plan we got lost
several times – especially in the old town where
the buildings were quite similar – though I know
some people say getting lost is the best way to
get to know a city! We were never short of help,
though – some people were even prepared
to walk with us to show us the way. That was
something I’ll always remember! Our hotel was
all right without being spectacular, and it was
a long walk in to the evening shows – we took
a taxi most times. There was loads to do every
day, though, and we certainly weren’t bored.
Now you will hear Part 3 again.
That is the end of Part 3.
Now turn to Part 4.
You will hear part of a radio interview with a woman called
Rachel Reed, who works in a commercial art gallery, a shop
which sells works of art. For Questions 24–30, choose the
best answer (A, B or C).
You now have 1 minute to look at Part 4.
Int: This evening in our series ‘Careers with a Difference’ our
guest is Rachel Reed who works for a small commercial
art gallery. Rachel welcome.
RR: Hello.
Int: Rachel, what exactly do you do?
RR: Well, there’s two great things about working for a really
small company. Firstly, you get to do a bit of everything.
The other is that you can practically invent your job
title. Mine is marketing manager – although I do a lot of
other things too, it does describe the majority of what I
do.
Int: So, tell us about your day.
RR: Well, it all starts with the huge pile of post we get. We
often get artists sending in photographs of their work
to see if we’d be interested in exhibiting it. I learned very
early on how to differentiate between the ‘possibles’
and those which are unsuitable.
Int: But how do you tell?
RR: It might be the style, or sometimes the subject matter
is just not going to look right in our gallery, but more
often than not, it’s just that they’re not of the required
standard. The ‘possibles’ I pass on to the gallery
manager who makes the final decision.
Int: So you have quite a lot of contact with artists?
RR: Yes. Sometimes I spend nearly all day on the phone and
about fifty percent of the time it’s artists. I send letters
explaining why we can’t show their work – some of them
phone up to argue about it – I find those calls very hard
to deal with. Artists we do exhibit also phone to find out
if we’ve managed to sell anything and, if we have, when
the money will be coming through. I don’t mind those
so much. Most other calls are from clients. We have a
new artist exhibiting here every two to four weeks and
before the show takes place, we send out a catalogue
to the clients on our database.
Int: Obviously the catalogue’s illustrated?
RR: Oh yes, and as soon as the catalogue goes out,
we start getting phone calls because people see
something they like and want to reserve it. Sometimes
they even buy things over the phone. The catalogue
also contains a commentary about the artist, which I
have to write and research. I try to find out what has
influenced them, where they learned to paint, what the
subject matter represents, that sort of thing, but I try
to avoid quoting from positive reviews of their work; it’s
not meant to be advertising as such.
58

-- 60 of 90 --

Int: So your job is not all administrative?
RR: Compared to a typical office, that side of it’s quite
minimal, that’s why I can cope without an assistant.
There are systems in place to deal with routine jobs. For
instance, I don’t have to send out the catalogues – the
company which prints them also prints the envelopes
and posts them. Another company takes care of the
food and drinks when we have the opening of a new
exhibition.
Int: And are you involved in other aspects of the business?
RR: Yes. The company also offers a consultancy service for
large companies that want to display works of art in
their offices. I phone round companies, explain what we
do and, if they’re interested, make an appointment for
the gallery manager to go and see them. It’s interesting,
the companies tend to go much more for modern or
abstract art than people coming to the gallery.
Int: And the best part of the job for you?
RR: The really rewarding thing for me is that you never
know how a day is going to go. Some days it’ll be really
quiet, other days it’s really busy and you don’t know
what you’re going to have to cope with. And there’s
the added bonus of working with really nice people
and of course I have the pleasure of spending my
days surrounded by beautiful works of art, so I can’t
complain.
Int: Thank you Rachel, and now we’ll move on to …
Now you’ll hear Part 4 again.
That is the end of Part 4.
There will now be a pause of 5 minutes for you to copy your
answers onto the separate answer sheet. Be sure to follow
the numbering of all the questions. I shall remind you when
there is 1 minute left, so that you are sure to finish in time.
You have one more minute left.
That is the end of the test.
Please stop now.
Your supervisor will now collect all the question papers and
answer sheets.
Listening Audio script 	59
Paper 3

-- 61 of 90 --

Assessment
Answer key for digital test
Please note that the digital exams do not use letters for the multiple-choice options.
Listening sample test 1
Q 	PART 1
1 	B
2 	B
3 	A
4 	C
5 	C
6 	A
7 	A
8 	A
Q 	PART 2
9 	(great) name
10 	chest
11 	northern
12 	forests
13 	(the) winter
14 	(the/some) human(s)
15 	berries
16 	(a) platform
17 	(small/little) mice
18 	(funny) diary
Q 	PART 3
19 	G
20 	B
21 	A
22 	H
23 	F
Q 	PART 4
24 	C
25 	B
26 	C
27 	A
28 	A
29 	A
30 	B
In Part 2, bracketed words/letters/characters do not have to appear in the answer.
60

-- 62 of 90 --

Paper-based sample test
2
Part 1
You will hear people talking in eight different situations. For questions
 1 – 8
, choose the best answer
(A, B or C).
_________________________________________________________________________________	
1 
You hear a young man talking about his hobby of rock climbing.
	How does he feel about it?	
A 
satisfied with his level of expertise
B 
concerned about doing a dangerous sport
C 
proud when he copes with difficult conditions
2 
You hear a public announcement at a family theme park.
	What does the announcement contain?	
A 
a change to a timetable
B 
details of a new attraction
C 
instructions about a location
3 
You hear two people talking about a course they have attended.
	What was the topic of the course?	
A 
book illustration
B 
journalism
C 
publishing
4 
You hear two people talking about a film they have both seen.
	What do they agree about?	
A 
The story wasn’t very original.
B 
Reviews of the film weren’t accurate.
C 
The message wasn’t very positive.
3
Turn over
 ►
5 
You hear a man being interviewed about a new project he has set up in his home town.
	What is the purpose of the project?	
A 
to reduce the amount of litter on a town’s streets
B 
to increase the inhabitants’ awareness of recycling
C 
to stop shopkeepers using plastic bags for customers’ purchases
6 
You hear a man talking on the radio about salespeople.
	What does he say about them?	
A 
They take pride in forming good relationships with buyers.
B 
They keep one objective in mind at all times.
C 
They prefer people they think are easy to sell to.
7 
You hear two friends talking about a student website.
	What do they agree about it?	
A 
It is visually attractive.
B 
It has a lot of useful advertisements.
C 
It is easy to navigate round.
8 
You hear a chef talking about taking part in a cookery competition.
	What did he find surprising?	
A 
how nervous he felt
B 
how rushed he felt
C 
how tired he felt
Listening Paper-based sample test 	61
Paper 3

-- 63 of 90 --

4
Part 2
You will hear a man called Chris Graham talking to a group of students about a vacation job he had
	in Australia.
	For questions
 9 – 18
, complete the sentences with a word or short phrase.
My Vacation Job in Australia
Chris thinks the best place to find a job like he had is the
(9)
 
.
Chris is studying
 (10)
 
at university.
For most of the time he was working for the travel company, Chris lived in a
(11)
 
outside of the town.
Chris was often asked to go to a
 (12)
 
at the weekend.
In the mornings, Chris had to drive tourists to see the
 (13)
in the desert.
Many of the tourists were unaware of the need to keep their
(14)
 
covered up when they were in the sun.
The tourists particularly wanted to know how to tell the difference between the
(15)
 
of the wild animals.
In the afternoons, the tourists were able to see some
 (16)
that had more than one use.
Chris says that the local government would like to have a larger
(17)
 
to attract tourists.
Chris advises other students to send off their job application forms in the month of
(18)
 
at the latest.
5
Turn over
 ►
Part 3
You will hear five short extracts in which people are talking about happiness. For questions
 19 – 23
,
choose from the list (
A – H
) what each person says happiness means to them. Use the letters only
once. There are three extra letters which you do not need to use.
	_________________________________________________________________________________	
A 
Having a happy personality allows you to cope effectively with
	problems.
B 
Happiness comes from having someone special to share
 your
thoughts with.
Speaker 1
 
19
C 
Happiness is all about the experience of overcoming problems.
Speaker
 2 
20
D 
Happiness is a short escape from everyday routine.
Speaker
 3 
21
E 
True happiness lies in making others happy.
Speaker
 4 
22
F 
Older people are less happy than younger ones.
Speaker
 5 
23
G 
Happiness is being thankful for what you have.
H 
Happiness comes from achieving your goals.
62

-- 64 of 90 --

6
Part 4
You will hear part of a radio interview with an author called Mickey Smith, who is talking about
	becoming excellent at sport. For questions
 24 – 30
, choose the best answer (
A, B or C).
_________________________________________________________________________________	
24 When asked about his theory on talent, Mickey says that	
A 
he is doing further research with other people.
B 
he realises some people disagree with him.
C 
he has not yet fully proved his ideas.
25 Mickey believes that outstanding football players	
A 
have better levels of concentration than other players.
B 
are aware of the positions of other players on the pitch.
C 
are faster runners than other players.
26 How did Mickey feel when he first became successful at gymnastics?	
A 
convinced he had a natural aptitude for the sport
B 
conscious that others in his area didn’t have the same chances
C 
lucky to have had one of the best training routines
27 Mickey says that the motivation to continue training for long periods of time	
A 
develops at an early age in people who become experts.
B 
depends on your personal attitude towards success.
C 
does not come naturally to most people.
28 Mickey says that coaches working with young people need to understand that	
A 
children and adults have different thought processes.
B 
young people have a built-in drive to succeed in areas like sport.
C 
it is important to focus on mental rather than physical techniques.
7
29 Mickey says that many people who play sport don’t bother to try hard because	
A 
they feel incapable of reaching the same levels as sports stars.
B 
they don’t have time to put in the necessary effort.
C 
they are not confident in their ability to deal with success.
30 According to Mickey, what can cause some sports people to fail at important events?	
A 
They haven’t trained enough.
B 
They are inexperienced at dealing with pressure.
C 
They can become too aware of their actions.
Listening Paper-based sample test 	63
Paper 3

-- 65 of 90 --

Download the audio files for the sample paper here:
cambridgeenglish.org/exams-and-tests/first/preparation
Audio script for paper-based test
This is the B2 First Certificate in English Listening test.
I am going to give you the instructions for this test.
I shall introduce each part of the test and give you time to
look at the questions.
At the start of each piece you will hear this sound:
You will hear each piece twice.
Remember, while you are listening, write your answers on
the question paper. You will have 5 minutes at the end of
the test to copy your answers onto the separate answer
sheet.
There will now be a pause. Please ask any questions now,
because you must not speak during the test.
Now open your question paper and look at Part 1.
You will hear people talking in eight different situations. For
Questions 1–8, choose the best answer (A, B or C).
1: You hear a young man talking about his hobby of
rock climbing.
It’s not for everyone, but I love the physical aspect. I started
almost by accident – my uncle took me to an indoor climbing
wall and I was hooked. The start of any climb still gives
me a real buzz. I’ve never settled for being less than the
best at anything I’ve tried, and that’s what pushed me to
the standard I am now – which doesn’t mean I don’t think I
can still improve! I get a huge sense of achievement when
I finish a particularly demanding climb, and though other
climbers get nervous sometimes, like when there’s ice, or the
weather’s bad, that never puts me off.
Now listen again.
2: You hear a public announcement at a family theme
park.
Attention everybody. This is Sonia Lee and I’m events
manager for today at Seaworld Centre. If you hurry to
Zone D you can catch the spectacular ‘riding with dolphins’
event. The next one’s on at 5 past 11, but don’t worry if
you miss that, because you’ve got three more chances
to see it today. We’ll now be feeding the sea lions at 2.15,
that’s 45 minutes later than scheduled according to your
programmes. And whatever you do, don’t miss the ever-
popular Penguin Walkabout. That starts in half an hour.
You’ve never seen anything like it! See you there!
Now listen again.
3: You hear two people talking about a course they have
attended.
F: I enjoyed that.
M: It was a bit too businessy for me. I know everything’s
about profits these days, but I still think producing books
should be more about creativity than making money.
F: Everything’s going the same way, whether you like it or
not. A friend of mine did a course on book illustration,
and she said the first lecture was about costs.
M: Anyway, this speaker said if we’re going into the
book trade, we should get practice in as many aspects
as possible.
F: I agree with that. They need an editor for the sports
page on the student newspaper, and I think I’ll go for it.
Now listen again.
4: You hear two people talking about a film they have
both seen.
F: Well, what did you think of that film?
M: I had mixed reactions really. From what I’d read, I
expected it to be funnier.
F: I know what you mean – just shows how different
people’s tastes can be I guess. Good twist at the end
though. I wasn’t expecting that, were you?
M: I kind of guessed what was coming to be honest. There
were a lot of references to other films in the storyline I
thought.
F: Oh, you think so? I wasn’t quite sure what message it
was trying to convey, though. One minute it seemed
to be saying one thing and the next it was saying the
opposite.
M: Yeah, I agree.
Now listen again.
5: You hear a man being interviewed about a new
project he has set up in his home town.
F: Steven, this new environmental project you’re running,
what are you hoping to achieve?
M: Well, Susie, the town I live in, Melbury, is a very pleasant
place to live – clean and tidy. The problem really isn’t
with Melbury as such but is a wider problem – that
of the dangers of rubbish to wildlife. So I got all the
retailers in the town together and showed them a film
I’d made on this subject and as a result they’ve agreed
to use paper bags instead of plastic ones. Recycling was
introduced very successfully last year so I’m hoping that
my new project will have similar success.
Now listen again.
6: You hear a man talking on the radio about
salespeople.
M: Professional salespeople can sell anything to anyone
and they do this by using very basic psychological
techniques. Buyers normally have certain requirements
by which they will judge the suitability of a product.
The seller therefore attempts to find out what these
conditions are by building a bond – asking questions
about hobbies, family and the like; but you need to
remember, the seller is only interested in ‘closing the
deal’. At its most extreme, salespeople will even attempt
to mirror the body language of the buyer. If the buyer
laughs, then so will the seller.
Now listen again.
64

-- 66 of 90 --

7: You hear two friends talking about a student website.
M: The college website is up again. Have you seen it?
F: Yes, they’ve been working on it for a month and it’s
better now. I thought, if they’d got sponsorship from
local companies, there’d be too many advertisements,
but it’s OK.
M: Yeah. That’s not a problem. They must’ve got someone
in from the design department to work on it, because
there are some real improvements, it’s not so dull.
F: Especially the artwork on the home page. They want
people to send in ideas so they can change the layout
regularly.
M: OK, so long as it doesn’t get too complicated and you
waste time figuring out how to get to the page you
want.
Now listen again.
8: You hear a chef talking about taking part in a cookery
competition.
F: How did you find the competition?
M: Tough, but I really enjoyed it. I was convinced the dishes
I’d chosen to prepare would go down well. I decided to
focus on using local ingredients as people nowadays
worry a lot about what they’re eating and it’s really
important to know where the food comes from. It was my
first time competing against others and it was fun being
under pressure to come up with things under strict time
limits. I hadn’t expected to be so worn out though, I
think it was having to be on my feet for so long, but it’s
definitely something I’ll do again.
Now listen again.
That is the end of Part 1.
Now turn to Part 2.
You will hear a man called Chris Graham talking to a group
of students about a vacation job he had in Australia. For
Questions 9–18 complete the sentences with a word or
short phrase.
You now have 45 seconds to look at Part 2.
Hello everyone. My name is Chris Graham and I spent my
last vacation working in Australia. The place I was in is
a popular tourist spot so there are lots of student jobs
advertised in the newspaper – from hotel work to being a
tour guide. I saw my job, for a bus driver, on the internet,
and so I applied. I’d recommend you do that too. The whole
idea of getting to know another country really appealed to
me and I’m really pleased I had the opportunity to go.
I worked for a company which tries to help tourists
understand what life used to be like before Europeans
arrived – a time before clothes, cars and electricity. Many
of the local people, the Aborigines, work for the company.
Studying tourism at university wasn’t essential to get the
job – in fact, my subject’s history. What I did do was a short
training course when I first arrived, though, to learn about
the local plants and animals.
At first, I was given a room in a hotel in town but I found that
I felt quite lonely so I moved into a caravan on the outskirts.
Lots of other staff lived on the site and I got to meet lots
of the local people there too. Everyone was really friendly
and, as there wasn’t a cinema or restaurant nearby, people
frequently had a party on Saturday night and I was always
invited.
I worked six days a week, and I had to get up really early
in the morning when most people, and even the birds and
animals, are asleep. This is so the tourists can get to take
photos of the sunrise. I used to pick them up from their
hotels around
5.00 a.m. and then head out of town and into the desert.
The tourists were from all over the world and often had
no experience of the heat. They knew, of course, about
covering their head and neck with a hat but often left their
shoulders uncovered, which wasn’t very sensible, especially
if they hadn’t been in the country for long and weren’t used
to the sun.
After we had been into the desert, I would take the tourists
to the local cultural centre, where they had the opportunity
to ask questions. The tourists were especially keen to
find out how to distinguish the tracks of kangaroos from
wallabies and wild dogs.
After the morning session I usually went back home, had a
shower and a rest, then started again around two in the
afternoon. I used to take the afternoon group to a water
hole, where they were shown which plants could be eaten
and which were also used to make weapons for hunting.
At one time, there were very few tourists in the particular
area I worked in, because you needed to get a coach from
the small railway station in the nearest large town, a good
200 kilometres away. There’s now an airport but the local
government is keen to get one built which can take more
flights, especially from abroad. I’m not sure about that, as
I think it’s busy enough as it is, but it would be good for the
local economy, no doubt about it.
Anyway, I really recommend working in Australia during
your vacation. The busy tourist season in the area where I
worked is from May to October, so you need to make sure
your application is in by the January of the year you are
hoping to work. You might not hear until March as it takes
a while to process the applications and get references, but
make sure you don’t leave it too late.
Now you will hear Part 2 again.
That is the end of Part 2.
Now turn to Part 3.
You will hear five short extracts in which people are talking
about happiness. For Questions 19–23, choose from the list
(A–H) what each person says happiness means to them. Use
the letters only once. There are three extra letters which
you do not need to use.
You now have 30 seconds to look at Part 3.
Speaker 1: What is happiness? From an early age
happiness for me is sitting in a boat in the
Listening Audio script 	65
Paper 3

-- 67 of 90 --

middle of a lake on a summer’s day and doing
some serious fishing … all alone just me and my
thoughts. No stress, get away from it all for an
hour or so, but maybe not completely aimless
– not just lying on a beach somewhere, but
having some task to do. Then, when it’s all over,
it’s back to normal life and problems and hassle,
and having to fight to get what you want. But
that brief moment of happiness helps me to
reflect and make sense of my life.
Speaker 2: I think to be happy, you do obviously need some
financial security – not rich … I didn’t say that,
’cos there’s an important difference. Also I’d
say you need humour in your life … that’s kind
of obvious too. Having lots of free time to do
what you want? Not sure, there. I’d say quite the
reverse, actually. For me, you really appreciate
your moments of leisure when you’ve done lots
of hard work. If it’s all play and no work in your
life, then you don’t enjoy it. So for me, it’s all to
do with … setting yourself a list of things to get
through and then you’ve completed them. Now
you can be happy.
Speaker 3: I sometimes wonder if being happy is something
to do with age. Very young children are
happy most of the time; very old people are
happy when they think of fond memories,
and also they’re happy when they see their
grandchildren happy. So happiness is not just
specific to one age group. That’s certainly the
case with my family. But in my experience happy
people get through life more easily – if you
take things seriously all the time, that’s when
you get stressed or have health issues, maybe.
And sometimes life can be a real pain, let’s be
honest.
Speaker 4: Happiness comes in many shapes and forms.
Personally I’m happy when I’m active, doing
my sports and feeling all healthy. But maybe
that’s a rather self-centred view. I also get
moments when I’m just, say, sitting on a train,
and suddenly I think of my children’s smiling
faces, and realise how lucky I am, how happy
they make me – and my husband too, of course.
My life could’ve turned out much worse, as it
has for many people. Will I still be happy when
they’ve all grown up and gone away? I’m sure
when that time comes, I’ll find a new form of
happiness.
Speaker 5: It’s sometimes said that you make your own
happiness, and I’ve got some sympathy for that
view. But in my experience, it’s something more
than that. It might sound strange, but I honestly
think it’s all about your life not being too easy.
If everything in your life is handed to you on
a plate by rich parents then I actually don’t
think you’re as happy as someone who’s had to
struggle a bit in their life. When you can share
your struggles with others and laugh about
how you got through them, that’s when you’re
truly happy. That’s certainly how it’s worked out
for me.
Now you will hear Part 3 again.
That is the end of Part 3.
Now turn to Part 4.
You will hear part of a radio interview with an author called
Mickey Smith, who is talking about becoming excellent at
sport. For Questions 24–30, choose the best answer (A, B or
C).
You now have 1 minute to look at Part 4.
F: Today on the programme we have Mickey Smith, author
of the book The Power of Practice. Mickey, in your book
you talk about what makes a champion sportsperson.
Your argument is that talent – a natural aptitude or skill
– doesn’t exist. Right?
M: Right. I know that’s controversial because it’s thought
that people are born with natural abilities. I have my
critics but the evidence from research I’ve done backs
up my argument. If you look at anyone who’s reached a
high level in any complex task, you’ll find they’ve spent
many years building up to it. This has started other
people thinking and doing their own research. I’ve no
doubt they’ll reach the same conclusions I have.
F: What about physical abilities like speed? Isn’t that what
makes one footballer better than another, for example?
M: There are physical issues that are significant in some
activities. However, in virtually all complex tasks the
limiting factor is a mental thing. People don’t become
the greatest footballers because they move around
the pitch quickly. While he may not realise it, the way a
great footballer understands where his teammates are
around him on the field is what helps him score goals,
rather than speed.
F: In your book you also talk about geographical areas
where lots of people become experts in the same
activity. Gymnastics, for example.
M: The town I grew up in produced the top gymnasts of my
generation, myself included. My initial reaction when I
got to the top was, ‘Wow’, I must have been born with
this ability to do gymnastics. But what about the others?
What I now understand is that this excellence was down
to having access to a fantastic coach and a 7-day-a-
week gymnastics club, where we transformed ourselves
from ordinary to extraordinary. Opportunity’s another
factor determining success.
F: Your argument is that to become excellent you have to
practise for thousands of hours. That’s a lot of training.
M: That’s right. How successful you are is down to how
long you’re prepared to work. Evidence suggests those
who make it believe excellence relies on practice. If you
believe being good at something is down to natural
ability, when you fail, you’ll think you don’t have enough
of it – and you’re more likely to give up. If you believe
excellence is about effort, when you fail you’re going to
see it as an opportunity to grow.
66

-- 68 of 90 --

F: What approach should coaches take when training
youngsters in sport?
M: The way to go about it is to ensure the child enjoys what
they’re learning – that it becomes an internal desire
to progress. Coaching young people is more about
psychology than it is about the technical side of things –
it’s making the young performer really care about where
they’re going, motivating them in the right way, that will
enable them to actually get there – little difference from
how you encourage adults really.
F: Why don’t more people who play sport try harder to
improve?
M: Well, they see sports stars and assume they were born
brilliant, but there’s no evidence to suggest that. You just
don’t see the painstaking process it took to get them
there when they’re winning games on your TV screen. If
you did, their brilliance wouldn’t seem so miraculous. The
illusion is to think they got there quickly and think ‘Oh my
goodness, I could never get up that slope.’
F: Given everything you’ve said about top performers, why
do they sometimes fail at crucial moments? That’s called
‘choking’, right?
M: Yes. It’s to do with the expectation to succeed, no matter
how many times they’ve done it before. When you first
practise a skill you have to exert conscious control over
it. When you become proficient you’re able to do it
subconsciously. When you choke you become so anxious
that instead of delivering your skill automatically, you
become conscious of what you’re doing and it’s like
you’ve never done it before.
F: Thank you very much [FADE]
Now you’ll hear Part 4 again.
That is the end of Part 4.
There will now be a pause of 5 minutes for you to copy your
answers onto the separate answer sheet. Be sure to follow
the numbering of all the questions. I shall remind you when
there is 1 minute left, so that you are sure to finish in time.
You have one more minute left.
That is the end of the test. Please stop now. Your supervisor
will now collect all the question papers and answer sheets.
Listening Audio script 	67
Paper 3

-- 69 of 90 --

Assessment
Answer key for paper-based test
Listening sample test 2
Q 	PART 1
1 	C
2 	A
3 	C
4 	B
5 	C
6 	B
7 	A
8 	C
Q 	PART 2
9 	internet
10 	history
11 	caravan
12 	party
13 	sun(-)rise
14 	shoulders
15 	tracks
16 	plants
17 	airport
18 	January
Q 	PART 3
19 	D
20 	H
21 	A
22 	G
23 	C
Q 	PART 4
24 	B
25 	B
26 	A
27 	B
28 	C
29 	A
30 	C
68

-- 70 of 90 --

Paper-based answer sheet
OFFICE USE ONLY - DO NOT WRITE OR MAKE ANY MARK ABOVE THIS LINE
 
Page 1 of 2
OFFICE USE ONLY - DO NOT WRITE OR MAKE ANY MARK BELOW THIS LINE
 
Page 1 of 2
First Listening Candidate Answer Sheet
Instructions
	Use a PENCIL (B or HB).	
Rub out any answer you want to change using an eraser.	
Parts 1, 3
 and
 4:
Mark ONE letter for each question.
	For example, if you think
 A is the
right answer to the question, mark
	your answer sheet like this:
Part 2:	
Write your answer clearly in CAPITAL LETTERS.
	Write one letter or number in each box.
	If the answer has more than one word, leave one
	box empty between words.
	For example:
Turn this sheet over to start.
Candidate
	Name
Centre
	Number
	Candidate
	Number
Centre
	Name
Assessment
	Date
	Examination
	Details
Examination
	Title
Candidate
	Signature
Supervisor: If the candidate is ABSENT or has WITHDRAWN shade here
20512
20512
OFFICE USE ONLY - DO NOT WRITE OR MAKE ANY MARK ABOVE THIS LINE
 
Page 2 of 2
OFFICE USE ONLY - DO NOT WRITE OR MAKE ANY MARK BELOW THIS LINE
 
Page 2 of 2
A 
B 
C
A 
B 
C
A 
B 
C
A 
B 
C
1
	2
	3
	4
	Part 1
Do not write
	below here
12
	13
	14
	11
	9
	10
	15
1 
0
11
1 
0
12
1 
0
13
1 
0
14
1 
0
9
1 
0
10
1 
0
15
16 
1 
0
16
8
A 
B 
C
A 
B 
C
5
	6
A 
B 
C
A 
B 
C
7
Part 2
 (Remember to write in CAPITAL LETTERS or numbers)
17 
1 
0
17
18 
1 
0
18
Part 3
19
	22
	20
21
A 
B 
C 
D 
E 
F 
G
A 
B 
C 
D 
E 
F 
G
A 
B 
C 
D 
E 
F 
G
A 
B 
C 
D 
E 
F 
G
A 
B 
C 
D 
E 
F 
G
23
H
	H
	H
	H
	H
Part 4
A 
B 
C
A 
B 
C
A 
B 
C
A 
B 
C
A 
B 
C
A 
B 
C
24
25
26
27
28
29
A 
B 
C
30
20512
20512
Listening Paper-based answer sheet 	69
Paper 3

-- 71 of 90 --

Speaking
Paper 4:
Speaking tasks
14 minutes (for pairs) 20 minutes (for groups of three)
The Speaking test contains four parts. There are always two examiners. Candidates are usually assessed in pairs, however
if there is an uneven number of candidates, candidates can be assessed in groups of three. One examiner acts as both
interlocutor and assessor and manages the interaction either by asking questions or providing cues for the candidates. The
other acts as assessor and does not join in the conversation.
PART 	TIMING 	TASK TYPE AND INTERACTION 	FOCUS
1 2 minutes
A conversation between the
interlocutor and each candidate
(spoken questions).
The focus is on general interactional
and social language.
2
A 1-minute ‘long turn’ for
each candidate, plus a
30-second response from
the second candidate. The
total time for Part 2 is 4
minutes.
An individual ‘long turn’ for each
candidate with a response from
the second candidate. In turn, the
candidates are given a pair of
photographs to talk about.
The focus is on organising a larger unit
of discourse; comparing, describing
and expressing opinions.
3
A 2-minute discussion
followed by a 1-minute
decision-making task. The
total time for Part 3 is 4
minutes.
A two-way conversation between
the candidates. The candidates are
given spoken instructions with written
stimuli, which are used in discussion
and decision-making tasks.
The focus is on sustaining an
interaction; exchanging ideas,
expressing and justifying opinions,
agreeing and/or disagreeing,
suggesting, speculating, evaluating,
reaching a decision through
negotiation, etc.
4 4 minutes A discussion on topics related to the
collaborative task (spoken questions).
The focus is on expressing and
justifying opinions, agreeing and/or
disagreeing and speculating.
70

-- 72 of 90 --

Tips for preparing learners for the Speaking paper
 Classroom activities which involve students working in
pairs and small groups will give practice in skills such
as initiating and responding, which are essential to
success in the Speaking test.
 Make sure your students are familiar with the format
of each part of the test. They should be aware of the
different interaction patterns (who speaks to whom)
and what stimulus will be provided by the interlocutor.
 Encourage your students to speak clearly so that they
can be heard by both the interlocutor and assessor.
They should be made aware that different varieties of
English accents in the UK and elsewhere in the world
are acceptable.
 Train your students to paraphrase when they do not
know, or cannot remember, a word.
 Train your students to listen carefully to the
instructions, and to read the questions above the
pictures in Part 2 and the discussion question and
prompts in Part 3, so that they know precisely what
they have to talk about.
 To ensure all candidates are treated fairly, the
interlocutor keeps to a scripted frame (as shown in
the sample papers). However, you may remind your
students that they can ask the examiner to repeat the
instructions or a question.
 Encourage your students to initiate discussion and to
respond to what other students have to say.
Format
The standard format is two examiners and two candidates,
but in cases where there is an uneven number of
candidates, the Speaking test may be taken by three
candidates together instead of two. Examiners are trained
to ensure each candidate has the same opportunity to
speak whether they are in pairs or in groups of three. When
three candidates are tested together, the test format, test
material and procedure will remain unchanged, but the
timing will be longer: 20 minutes instead of 14.
One examiner, the interlocutor, conducts the test and gives
a global assessment of each candidate’s performance.
The other, the assessor, does not take any part in the
interaction but focuses solely on listening to, and making an
assessment of, each candidate’s oral proficiency.
At the end of the Speaking test, candidates are thanked for
attending. They are given no indication of the level of their
achievement.
N.B. In some centres candidates from the same school are paired together. However, where candidates from a number of
different schools are entered at the same centre, some candidates may find that they are paired with a candidate from
another school. Students may check with the centre through which they are entering for the local procedure, if they wish.
Speaking Preparing learners 	71
Paper 4

-- 73 of 90 --

Advice by task
This section shows example screenshots from the B2 First exam. To access the complete sample test, please
scan the QR code, or go to camengli.sh/3YMtIM6
Speaking Part 1
Part 1
2 minutes (3 minutes for groups of three)
Good morning/afternoon/evening. My name is ………… and this is my colleague ………… .
And your names are?
Can I have your mark sheets, please?
Thank you.
• Where do you live, (Candidate A)?
• And you, (Candidate B)?
First we’d like to know something about you.
Select one or more questions from any of the following categories, as appropriate.
Likes and dislikes
• How do you like to spend your evenings? ...... (What do you do?) ...... (Why?)
• Do you prefer to spend time on your own or with other people? ...... (Why?)
• Tell us about a film you really like.
• Do you like cooking? ...... (What sort of things do you cook?)
Special occasions
• Do you normally celebrate special occasions with friends or family? ...... (Why?)
• Tell us about a festival or celebration in (candidate’s country).
• What did you do on your last birthday?
• Are you going to do anything special this weekend? ...... (Where are you going to go?) ......
(What are you going to do?)
Media
• How much TV do you watch in a week? ...... (Would you prefer to watch more TV than that
or less?) ...... (Why?)
• Tell us about a TV programme you’ve seen recently.
• Do you use the internet much? ...... (Why? / Why not?)
• Do you ever listen to the radio? ...... (What programmes do you like?) ...... (Why?)
THE TASK
f This part tests the candidate’s ability to use social and interactional language.
f Part 1 gives candidates the opportunity to show their ability to use general social and interactional language and to
give basic personal information about themselves. The questions which are asked relate to the candidates’ own lives
and focus on areas such as work, leisure time and future plans. Candidates are expected to respond to the interlocutor’s
questions, and to listen to what their partner has to say.
f The candidates are not actively invited to talk to each other in this part of the test. This short social exchange is a
natural way to begin an interaction, and it gives candidates time to settle before dealing with the more specific tasks in
Parts 2, 3 and 4.
HOW TO APPROACH THE TASK
f In this part of the test, students will benefit from finding opportunities to practise talking about themselves. Interlocutors
will ask candidates a range of questions about their everyday lives, for example sports they enjoy, travel and holidays,
work experience and so on. Encourage your students to respond promptly, with answers which are complete and
spontaneous. Rehearsed speeches should be avoided as these might be inappropriate for the question asked.
f Encourage your students to look for opportunities to socialise with English speakers. In class, they could role-play
social occasions in which they meet new people, e.g. parties, train journeys, starting a new job. This will give them the
opportunity to practise a range of topics for this part of the test.
f Students could brainstorm possible questions from the categories above. The different groups could then answer each
other’s questions.
72

-- 74 of 90 --

This section shows example screenshots for Candidate A. To access the complete sample test, go to camengli.sh/3YMtIM6
Speaking Part 2
THE TASK
f This part tests the candidate’s ability to use social and interactional language.
f In Part 2, candidates are given the opportunity to speak for 1 minute without interruption. Each candidate is asked
to compare two colour photographs, and to make a further comment about them in response to a task that is read
out by the interlocutor. A prompt is given to the candidates in the form of a direct question; this is written above the
photographs. Candidates are expected to point out similarities and differences between the photographs and then
move on to deal with the question, answering it with reference to both photographs.
f Candidates have the opportunity to show their ability to organise their thoughts and ideas, and express themselves
coherently with appropriate language. The listening candidate is also asked to comment (for about 30 seconds) after
their partner’s long turn. They should not speak during their partner’s long turn.
HOW TO APPROACH THE TASK
f Teach your students to listen carefully to the instructions and to carry them out. Remind them that they should listen
carefully to the instructions which follow the words and say and read the question above the photographs. If they do
not do this they may miss the focus of the task and not produce a wide enough range of language, or they may find it
difficult to speak for the full minute.
f Students should be confident that they know what they have to say before they start their long turn. Remind your
students that they will not lose marks if they ask the examiner to repeat the instructions.
f Students sometimes find that a minute is quite a long time to talk for. Give your students practice at talking for a minute
about a given topic. Topics and visuals in B2 First coursebooks will be appropriate for this practice. Give students plenty
of practice in organising an extended turn and in linking their ideas together. Time this practice so that your students
get a feel for how long a minute is. Without this, they may finish the task too quickly and as a result fail to give the
examiners an adequate sample of language.
f Give your students practice by cutting thematically linked pairs of photographs from magazines and giving these an
additional focus as in the test. For example, you might choose photographs of two different types of holiday and ask
your students to compare the photographs and say what people would enjoy about a holiday in each of the different
places.
f Encourage your students to bring their own photographs to class and to speak about them.
f Candidates are not expected to give detailed descriptions of each picture. Rather, they are asked to compare the
pictures and to give their reaction to them. Get your students to work in pairs or small groups and to share their ideas
about what they might say, before they attempt a task.
f Students often find it useful to observe a good model answer given by a more advanced learner of English or by the
teacher.
f Encourage your students to focus on useful language for this part of the test. In particular, ways of expressing similarity
and difference may help, e.g. one similarity is that …; in this picture there’s … whereas in the other there’s … Remind your
students that using comparatives and linking words will produce a more extended and coherent sample of speech
than simply stringing together a series of simple statements. This will help them to gain marks under the Discourse
Management assessment criterion.
f Play games such as Just a Minute where candidates have to speak for 1 minute without repeating themselves.
Speaking Advice by task 	73
Paper 4

-- 75 of 90 --

Speaking Part 3
21 Eating healthily 	Part 3 4 minutes (5 minutes for groups of three)
Part 4 4 minutes (6 minutes for groups of three)
Part 3
Interlocutor Now, I’d like you to talk about something together for about two minutes (3 minutes for
groups of three).
Some people say it’s easy to eat healthily these days and other people disagree.
Here are some things they think about, and a question for you to discuss. First you
have some time to look at the task.
Place Part 3 booklet, open at Task 21, in front of the candidates. Allow 15 seconds.
Now, talk to each other about whether it’s easy to eat healthily these days.
Candidates
 2 minutes
(3 minutes for
	groups of three)
………………………………………………………..
Interlocutor Thank you. Now you have about a minute to decide which of these things is most
important if people want to eat healthily.
Candidates
 1 minute
(for pairs and
groups of three)
………………………………………………………..
Interlocutor Thank you. (Can I have the booklet, please?) Retrieve Part 3 booklet.
Part 4
Interlocutor Use the following questions, in order, as appropriate:
 Do you think fast food has become too
convenient? ...... (Why? / Why not?)
Select any of the following
prompts, as appropriate:
 What do you think?
 Do you agree?
 And you?	 Do you agree that it doesn’t matter what people eat
as long as they eat a variety of things? ...... (Why? /
Why not?)
 Some people say that taking exercise is more important than eating healthily.
Do you agree? ...... (Why? / Why not?)
 Should workplaces provide spaces for employees to exercise during the day?
...... (Why? / Why not?)
 Should people continue to eat traditional food from their country even if it’s
unhealthy? ...... (Why? / Why not?)
 Do you think that schools should teach students how to cook? ...... (Why? /
Why not?)
Thank you. That is the end of the test.
1
knowing what food is
healthy or unhealthy
Is it easy to eat healthily
these days?
having time to cook
seeing advertisements
for food 	cost of eating healthily
eating what friends eat
THE TASK
f This part tests the candidates’ ability to engage in a discussion and to work towards a negotiated outcome of the task
set.
f In Part 3, candidates are asked to respond to a written stimulus which forms the basis for a discussion. They are given
a discussion question, together with five written prompts designed to help candidates by providing ideas for their
discussion. Candidates are expected to answer the question by exploring the different prompts. Candidates can choose
which prompts to discuss – they are not expected to discuss all five prompts in the time available but should continue
their discussion until asked to stop by the interlocutor. Candidates are expected to express and justify their opinions
and speculate in order to have a conversation which answers the discussion question. The interlocutor will then ask
candidates a second question designed to encourage them to summarise their discussion and to work towards a
negotiated decision. Candidates are not penalised if they fail to reach a negotiated decision. They are assessed on their
ability to hold a conversation, to turn-take appropriately, and to use the language of negotiation and collaboration
while doing this.
f The task is opinion based and there is no right or wrong answer. The task gives candidates the opportunity to show their
range of language and their ability to invite the opinions and ideas of their partner. Candidates are expected to share
the interaction in this way and to initiate and respond appropriately.
HOW TO APPROACH THE TASK
f In this part of the test the interlocutor will give candidates a question to discuss. Encourage your students to use
the written prompts as fully as possible. The interlocutor will then ask a question encouraging candidates to reach a
decision by agreeing or disagreeing with each other. Tell your students not to be afraid to disagree with each other
politely and that they will not lose marks if they fail to reach a decision.
f It is very important for candidates to interact with each other when they carry out the Part 3 task. All classroom
discussion in pairs and small groups, therefore, provides excellent preparation.
f Remind your students to make positive contributions to move the discussion forward. They should be encouraged to
respond to each other’s contributions by agreeing, disagreeing and questioning each other, rather than just giving
information about the task.
f In classroom activities, one student in each group could be made responsible for ensuring that every member of the
group gets an equal opportunity to speak, so that the students become alerted to the importance of turn-taking.
f It may also be useful to focus on accurate production of functional language likely to be useful in this type of discussion.
This may include ways of managing the discussion, e.g. Shall we start with this one? What do you think? Shall we move on
to …? Ways of expressing and justifying opinions, and agreeing and disagreeing (politely) are also likely to be useful.
74

-- 76 of 90 --

Speaking Part 4
have some time to look at the task.
Place Part 3 booklet, open at Task 21, in front of the candidates. Allow 15 seconds.
Now, talk to each other about whether it’s easy to eat healthily these days.
Candidates
 2 minutes
(3 minutes for	
groups of three)
………………………………………………………..
Interlocutor Thank you. Now you have about a minute to decide which of these things is most
important if people want to eat healthily.
Candidates
 1 minute
(for pairs and
groups of three)
………………………………………………………..
Interlocutor Thank you. (Can I have the booklet, please?) Retrieve Part 3 booklet.
Part 4
Interlocutor Use the following questions, in order, as appropriate:
 Do you think fast food has become too
convenient? ...... (Why? / Why not?)
Select any of the following
prompts, as appropriate:
 What do you think?
 Do you agree?
 And you?	 Do you agree that it doesn’t matter what people eat
as long as they eat a variety of things? ...... (Why? /
Why not?)
 Some people say that taking exercise is more important than eating healthily.
Do you agree? ...... (Why? / Why not?)
 Should workplaces provide spaces for employees to exercise during the day?
...... (Why? / Why not?)
 Should people continue to eat traditional food from their country even if it’s
unhealthy? ...... (Why? / Why not?)
 Do you think that schools should teach students how to cook? ...... (Why? /
Why not?)
Thank you. That is the end of the test.
THE TASK
f This part tests the candidates’ ability to engage in a discussion and to work towards a negotiated outcome of the task
set.
f In Part 4, the interlocutor directs the interaction by asking questions which encourage the candidates to discuss further
and broaden the topics introduced in Part 3. The questions differ from Part 1 in that they ask primarily for an evaluation
rather than for information.
f This part of the test gives candidates an opportunity to show that they are capable of discussing issues in more depth
than in the earlier parts of the test.
HOW TO APPROACH THE TASK
f Encourage your students to give full answers to the questions asked. They can do this by keeping useful question words
in their heads, e.g. Why?, How?, When?, Where?. If, when answering a question, students also respond to related question
words like these, they will give full contributions. For example, in response to a question following Part 3 on the subject
of ‘Holidays’, students could be asked Would you like to go on a holiday like this? Students could answer yes, giving
the reasons why they would like a particular holiday, when they would like to go, where they would go, and so on. The
question Why? is useful for nearly all Part 4 questions and the interlocutor will often ask this question if students fail to
give more than a minimal response.
f Let your students practise asking each other for their opinions on everyday situations and current events, and
encourage them to give full answers to the questions asked in the way suggested above.
f Candidates may be asked individual questions, or the question may be directed to engage both candidates in the
discussion. Therefore, as with Part 3, classroom discussions in pairs and small groups provide excellent preparation.
f In order to raise awareness of the types of questions asked and of effective ways of answering them, it may be helpful to
give pairs of students different topics and to ask each pair to think of six discussion questions for their topic. These sets
of questions could then be exchanged by the different pairs of students and discussed.
f Remind your students that there are no right answers to the questions and candidates will not be judged on their
opinions, only on the language they use to express their opinions. It is quite acceptable for candidates to admit to not
knowing much about a particular question, but they should be taught to expand on their views wherever possible and
should be discouraged from making responses such as I don’t know, I’m not sure or I haven’t thought about that.
Speaking Advice by task 	75
Paper 4

-- 77 of 90 --

Sample test
76

-- 78 of 90 --

Speaking Sample test 	77
Paper 4

-- 79 of 90 --

21 Eating healthily
 
Part 3
 4 minutes (5 minutes for groups of three)
Part 4
 4 minutes (6 minutes for groups of three)
Part 3
Interlocutor
 
Now, I’d like you to talk about someth
ing together for about two minutes
 (3 minutes for
groups of three).	
Some people say it’s easy to eat healthily these days and other people disagree.	
Here are some things they think about,
 and a question for you to discuss. First you
have some time to look at the task.	
Place
 Part 3
 booklet, open at
 Task 21
, in front of the candidates. Allow 15 seconds.
Now, talk to each other about
 whether it’s easy to eat healthily these days.
Candidates	
 2 minutes
(3 minutes for
	groups of three)
………………………………………………………..
Interlocutor
 
Thank you.
 Now you have about a minute to decide
 which of these things is most
important if people want to eat healthily.
Candidates	
 1 minute
(for pairs and
	groups of three)
………………………………………………………..
Interlocutor
 
Thank you.
 (Ca
n I have the booklet, please?)
 Retrieve
 Part 3
 booklet.
Part 4
Interlocutor
 
Use the following questions, in order, as appropriate:	
 Do you think fast food has become too
	convenient? ...... (Why? / Why not?)
Select any of the following	
prompts, as appropriate:	
 What do you think?	
 Do you agree?	
 And you?
 Do you agree
 that it doesn’t matter what people eat
as long as they eat a variety of things? ...... (Why? /
	Why not?)
 Some people say that taking exercise is more important than eating healthily.
	Do you agree? ...... (Why? / Why not?)
 Should workplaces provide spaces for employees to exercise during the day?
	...... (Why? / Why not?)
 Should people continue to eat traditional food from their
 country even if it’s
unhealthy? ...... (Why? / Why not?)
 Do you think that schools should teach students how to cook? ...... (Why? /
	Why not?)
Thank you.
 That is the end of the test.
1
knowing what food is
healthy or unhealthy
Is it easy to eat healthily
these days?
having time to cook
seeing advertisements
for food cost of eating healthily
eating what friends eat
78

-- 80 of 90 --

Assessment
Examiners and marking
The quality assurance of Speaking Examiners (SEs)
is managed by Team Leaders (TLs). TLs ensure all
examiners successfully complete examiner training and
regular certification of procedure and assessment
before they examine. TLs are in turn responsible to a
Professional Support Leader (PSL) who is the professional
representative of Cambridge Assessment English for the
Speaking tests in a given country or region.
Annual examiner certification involves attendance at a
face-to-face meeting to focus on and discuss assessment
and procedure, followed by the marking of sample Speaking
tests in an online environment. Examiners must complete
standardisation of assessment for all relevant levels each
year and are regularly monitored during live testing
sessions.
Assessment scales
Throughout the test candidates are assessed on their
own individual performance and not in relation to each
other. They are awarded marks by two examiners: the
assessor and the interlocutor. The assessor awards marks
by applying performance descriptors from the analytical
assessment scales for the following criteria:
• 	Grammar and Vocabulary
• 	Discourse Management
• 	Pronunciation
• 	Interactive Communication
The interlocutor awards a mark for global achievement
using the global achievement scale.
B2 	GLOBAL ACHIEVEMENT
5
Handles communication on a range of familiar
topics, with very little hesitation.
Uses accurate and appropriate linguistic
resources to express ideas and produce extended
discourse that is generally coherent.
4 	Performance shares features of Bands 3 and 5.
3
Handles communication on familiar topics, despite
some hesitation.
Organises extended discourse but occasionally
produces utterances that lack coherence, and
some inaccuracies and inappropriate usage occur.
2 	Performance shares features of Bands 1 and 3.
1
Handles communication in everyday situations,
despite hesitation.
Constructs longer utterances but is not able to use
complex language except in
well-rehearsed utterances.
0 	Performance below Band 1.
Assessment for B2 First is based on performance across all
parts of the test, and is achieved by applying the relevant
descriptors in the assessment scales. The assessment scales
for B2 First (shown on page 79) are extracted from the
overall Speaking scales on page 80.
Speaking Assessment 	79
Paper 4

-- 81 of 90 --

B2 First Speaking Examiners use a more detailed version of the following assessment scales, extracted from the overall
Speaking scales on page 80:
B2 GRAMMAR AND
VOCABULARY
DISCOURSE
MANAGEMENT PRONUNCIATION INTERACTIVE
COMMUNICATION
5
Shows a good degree
of control of a range of
simple and some complex
grammatical forms.
Uses a range of
appropriate vocabulary
to give and exchange
views on a wide range of
familiar topics.
Produces extended
stretches of language
with very little hesitation.
Contributions are
relevant and there is a
clear organisation of
ideas.
Uses a range of cohesive
devices and discourse
markers.
Is intelligible.
Intonation is appropriate.
Sentence and word stress
is accurately placed.
Individual sounds are
articulated clearly.
Initiates and responds
appropriately, linking
contributions to those of
other speakers.
Maintains and develops
the interaction and
negotiates towards an
outcome.
4 	Performance shares features of Bands 3 and 5.
3
Shows a good degree
of control of simple
grammatical forms, and
attempts some complex
grammatical forms.
Uses a range of
appropriate vocabulary to
give and exchange views
on a range of familiar
topics.
Produces extended
stretches of language
despite some hesitation.
Contributions are relevant
and there is very little
repetition.
Uses a range of cohesive
devices.
Is intelligible.
Intonation is generally
appropriate.
Sentence and word stress
is generally accurately
placed.
Individual sounds are
generally articulated
clearly.
Initiates and responds
appropriately.
Maintains and develops
the interaction and
negotiates towards an
outcome with very little
support.
2 	Performance shares features of Bands 1 and 3.
1
Shows a good degree
of control of simple
grammatical forms.
Uses a range of
appropriate vocabulary
when talking about
everyday situations.
Produces responses which
are extended beyond
short phrases, despite
hesitation.
Contributions are mostly
relevant, despite some
repetition.
Uses basic cohesive
devices.
Is mostly intelligible, and
has some control of
phonological features at
both utterance and word
levels.
Initiates and responds
appropriately.
Keeps the interaction
going with very little
prompting and support.
0 	Performance below Band 1.
80

-- 82 of 90 --

Overall Speaking scales
CEFR	
LEVEL
GRAMMATICAL	
RESOURCE
 
LEXICAL RESOURCE
 
DISCOURSE MANAGEMENT
 
PRONUNCIATION
 
INTERACTIVE	
COMMUNICATION
• Maintains control	
of a wide range of	
grammatical forms	
and uses them with	
flexibility.
• Uses a wide range	
of appropriate	
vocabulary with	
flexibility to give and	
exchange views on	
unfamiliar and abstract	
topics.
• Produces extended stretches of	
language with flexibility and ease and	
very little hesitation.
• Contributions are relevant, coherent,	
varied and detailed.
• Makes full and effective use of a wide	
range of cohesive devices and	
discourse markers.
• Is intelligible.
• Phonological features are	
used effectively to convey	
and enhance meaning.
• Interacts with ease by skilfully	
interweaving his/her contributions	
into the conversation.
• Widens the scope of the interaction	
and develops it fully and effectively	
towards a negotiated outcome.
C2
• Maintains control	
of a wide range of	
grammatical forms.
• Uses a wide range	
of appropriate	
vocabulary to give and	
exchange views on	
unfamiliar	
and abstract topics.
• Produces extended stretches of	
language with ease and with very little	
hesitation.
• Contributions are relevant, coherent	
and varied.
• Uses a wide range of cohesive devices	
and discourse markers.
• Is intelligible.
• Intonation is appropriate.
• Sentence and word stress is	
accurately placed.
• Individual sounds are	
articulated clearly.
• Interacts with ease, linking	
contributions to those of other	
speakers.
• Widens the scope of the interaction	
and negotiates towards an	
outcome.
C1
• Shows a good degree	
of control of a range	
of simple and some	
complex grammatical	
forms.
• Uses a range	
of appropriate	
vocabulary to give and	
exchange views on	
familiar and unfamiliar	
topics.
• Produces extended stretches of	
language with very little hesitation.
• Contributions are relevant and there is	
a clear organisation of ideas.
• Uses a range of cohesive devices and	
discourse markers.
• Is intelligible.
• Intonation is appropriate.
• Sentence and word stress is	
accurately placed.
• Individual sounds are	
articulated clearly.
• Initiates and responds	
appropriately, linking contributions	
to those of other speakers.
• Maintains and develops the	
interaction and negotiates towards	
an outcome.
GRAMMAR AND VOCABULARY
B2
• Shows a good degree of control of simple	
grammatical forms, and attempts some complex	
grammatical forms.
• Uses appropriate vocabulary to give and exchange	
views, on a range of familiar topics.
• Produces extended stretches of	
language despite some hesitation.
• Contributions are relevant and there is	
very little repetition.
• Uses a range of cohesive devices.
• Is intelligible.
• Intonation is generally	
appropriate.
• Sentence and word stress is	
generally accurately placed.
• Individual sounds are	
generally articulated clearly.
• Initiates and responds	
appropriately.
• Maintains and develops the	
interaction and negotiates towards	
an outcome with very little support.
B1
• Shows a good degree of control of simple	
grammatical forms.
• Uses a range of appropriate vocabulary when	
talking about familiar topics.
• Produces responses which are	
extended beyond short phrases,	
despite hesitation.
• Contributions are mostly relevant, but	
there may be some repetition.
• Uses basic cohesive devices.
• Is mostly intelligible, and has	
some control of phonological	
features at both utterance	
and word levels.
• Initiates and responds	
appropriately.
• Keeps the interaction going with	
very little prompting and support.
A2
• Shows sufficient control of simple grammatical forms.
• Uses appropriate vocabulary to talk about	
everyday situations.
• Is mostly intelligible,	
despite limited control of	
phonological features.
• Maintains simple exchanges,	
despite some difficulty.
• Requires prompting and support.
A1
• Shows only limited control of a few grammatical	
forms.
• Uses a vocabulary of isolated words and phrases.
• Has very limited control of	
phonological features and is	
often unintelligible.
• Has considerable difficulty	
maintaining simple exchanges.
• Requires additional prompting and	
support.
Speaking Overall speaking scales 	81
Paper 4

-- 83 of 90 --

Speaking assessment
Glossary of terms
1. General
Conveying basic meaning
Conveying basic meaning: the ability of candidates to get
their message across to their listeners, despite possible
inaccuracies in the structure and/or delivery of the
message.
Situations and topics
Everyday situations: situations that candidates come
across in their everyday lives, e.g. having a meal, asking
for information, shopping, going out with friends or family,
travelling to work, taking part in leisure activities. An A2
Key for Schools task that requires candidates to exchange
details about a store’s opening hours exemplifies an
everyday situation.
Familiar topics: topics about which candidates can be
expected to have some knowledge or personal experience.
B2 First tasks that require candidates to talk about what
people like to do on holiday, or what it is like to do different
jobs, exemplify familiar topics.
Unfamiliar topics: topics which candidates would not
be expected to have much personal experience of. C1
Advanced tasks that require candidates to speculate
about whether people in the world today only care about
themselves, or the kinds of problems that having a lot of
money can cause, exemplify unfamiliar topics.
Abstract topics: topics which include ideas rather than
concrete situations or events. C2 Proficiency tasks that
require candidates to discuss how far the development of
our civilisation has been affected by chance discoveries
or events, or the impact of writing on society, exemplify
abstract topics.
Utterance
Utterance: people generally write in sentences and they
speak in utterances. An utterance may be as short as a
word or phrase, or a longer stretch of language.
2. Grammar and Vocabulary
Appropriacy of vocabulary
Appropriacy of vocabulary: the use of words and phrases
that fit the context of the given task. For example, in the
utterance I’m very sensible to noise, the word sensible is
inappropriate as the word should be sensitive. Another
example would be Today’s big snow makes getting around
the city difficult. The phrase getting around is well suited
to this situation. However, big snow is inappropriate as big
and snow are not used together. Heavy snow would be
appropriate.
Flexibility
Flexibility: the ability of candidates to adapt the language
they use in order to give emphasis, to differentiate
according to the context, and to eliminate ambiguity.
Examples of this would be reformulating and paraphrasing
ideas.
Grammatical control
Grammatical control: the ability to consistently use
grammar accurately and appropriately to convey intended
meaning.
Where language specifications are provided at lower levels
(as in A2 Key for Schools and B1 Preliminary), candidates
may have control of only the simplest exponents of the
listed forms.
Attempts at control: sporadic and inconsistent use of
accurate and appropriate grammatical forms. For example,
the inconsistent use of one form in terms of structure or
meaning; the production of one part of a complex form
incorrectly; or the use of some complex forms correctly and
some incorrectly.
Spoken language often involves false starts, incomplete
utterances, ellipsis and reformulation. Where
communication is achieved, such features are not penalised.
Grammatical forms
Simple grammatical forms: words, phrases, basic tenses
and simple clauses.
Complex grammatical forms: longer and more complex
utterances, e.g. noun clauses, relative and adverb clauses,
subordination, passive forms, infinitives, verb patterns,
modal forms and tense contrasts.
Range
Range: the variety of words and grammatical forms a
candidate uses. At higher levels, candidates will make
increasing use of a greater variety of words, fixed phrases,
collocations and grammatical forms.
3. Discourse Management
Coherence and cohesion
Coherence and cohesion are difficult to separate in
discourse. Broadly speaking, coherence refers to a clear
and logical stretch of speech which can be easily followed
by a listener. Cohesion refers to a stretch of speech which is
unified and structurally organised.
Coherence and cohesion can be achieved in a variety of
ways, including with the use of cohesive devices, related
vocabulary, grammar and discourse markers.
Cohesive devices: words or phrases which indicate
relationships between utterances, e.g. addition (and, in
addition, moreover); consequence (so, therefore, as a
result); order of information (first, second, next, finally).
82

-- 84 of 90 --

At higher levels, candidates should be able to provide
cohesion not just with basic cohesive devices (e.g. and, but,
or, then, finally) but also with more sophisticated devices
(e.g. therefore, moreover, as a result, in addition, however,
on the other hand).
Related vocabulary: the use of several items from the same
lexical set, e.g. train, station, platform, carriage; or study,
learn, revise.
Grammatical devices: essentially the use of reference
pronouns (e.g. it, this, one) and articles (e.g. There are two
women in the picture. The one on the right …).
Discourse markers: words or phrases which are primarily
used in spoken language to add meaning to the interaction,
e.g. you know, you see, actually, basically, I mean, well,
anyway, like.
Extent/extended stretches of language
Extent/extended stretches of language: the amount
of language produced by a candidate which should be
appropriate to the task. Long-turn tasks require longer
stretches of language, whereas tasks which involve
discussion or answering questions could require shorter and
extended responses.
Relevance
Relevance: a contribution that is related to the task and not
about something completely different.
Repetition
Repetition: repeating the same idea instead of introducing
new ideas to develop the topic.
4. Pronunciation
Intelligible
Intelligible: a contribution which can generally be
understood by a non-EFL/ESOL specialist, even if the
speaker has a strong or unfamiliar accent.
Phonological features
Phonological features include the pronunciation of
individual sounds, word and sentence stress and intonation.
Individual sounds are:
pronounced vowels, e.g. the /æ/ in cat or the // in bed
diphthongs, when two vowels are rolled together to
produce one sound, e.g. the // in host or the // in hate
consonants, e.g. the // in cut or the // in fish.
Stress: the emphasis laid on a syllable or word. Words of
two or more syllables have one syllable which stands out
from the rest because it is pronounced more loudly and
clearly, and is longer than the others, e.g. imPORtant. Word
stress can also distinguish between words, e.g. proTEST
vs PROtest. In sentences, stress can be used to indicate
important meaning, e.g. WHY is that one important? versus
Why is THAT one important?
Intonation: the way the voice rises and falls, e.g. to convey
the speaker’s mood, to support meaning or to indicate new
information.
5. Interactive Communication
Development of the interaction
Development of the interaction: actively developing the
conversation, e.g. by saying more than the minimum in
response to the written or visual stimulus or to something
the other candidate/interlocutor has said; or by proactively
involving the other candidate with a suggestion or question
about further developing the topic (e.g. What about
bringing a camera for the holiday? or Why’s that?).
Initiating and responding
Initiating: starting a new turn by introducing a new idea or
a new development of the current topic.
Responding: replying or reacting to what the other
candidate or the interlocutor has said.
Prompting and supporting
Prompting: instances when the interlocutor repeats, or uses
a backup prompt or gesture in order to get the candidate
to respond or make a further contribution.
Supporting: instances when one candidate helps another
candidate, e.g. by providing a word they are looking for
during a discussion activity, or helping them develop an
idea.
Turn and simple exchange
Turn: everything a person says before someone else speaks.
Simple exchange: a brief interaction which typically involves
two turns in the form of an initiation and a response, e.g.
question–answer, suggestion–agreement.
Speaking Glossary of terms 	83
Paper 4

-- 85 of 90 --

Mark sheet
OFFICE USE ONLY - DO NOT WRITE OR MAKE ANY MARK ABOVE THIS LINE 	Page 1 of 1
OFFICE USE ONLY - DO NOT WRITE OR MAKE ANY MARK BELOW THIS LINE 	Page 1 of 1
First Speaking Mark Sheet
Grammar and Vocabulary
Discourse Management
Pronunciation
Interactive Communication
Marks Awarded:
Global Achievement
Assessor's number
Interlocutor's number
Number of 2nd Candidate
Number of 3rd Candidate
Test Format
Examiners:Candidates
2 : 3
2 : 2
Candidate
Name
Centre
Number
Candidate
Number
Centre
Name
Assessment
Date
Examination
Details
Examination
Title
Supervisor: If the candidate is ABSENT or has WITHDRAWN shade here
Date of test:
Month:
Day:
2 	3 	4 	5 	6 	7 	8 	9 	10 11 12	1
1 	2 	3 	4 	5 	6 	7 	8 	9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 21 22 23 24 25 26 27 28 29 30 31
Test materials used: 	Part 2
Part 3
1 	2 	3 	4 	5 	6 	7 	8 	9 	10
21 22 23 24 25 26 27 28 29 30
11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20
0 	1.0 	1.5 	2.0 	2.5 	3.0 	3.5 	4.0 	4.5 	5.0
0 	1.0 	1.5 	2.0 	2.5 	3.0 	3.5 	4.0 	4.5 	5.0
0 	1.0 	1.5 	2.0 	2.5 	3.0 	3.5 	4.0 	4.5 	5.0
0 	1.0 	1.5 	2.0 	2.5 	3.0 	3.5 	4.0 	4.5 	5.0
0 	1.0 	1.5 	2.0 	2.5 	3.0 	3.5 	4.0 	4.5 	5.0
52652
52652
84

-- 86 of 90 --

B2 First glossary
Answer sheet
the form on which candidates record their responses.
Assessor
the Speaking test examiner who assigns a score to a
candidate’s performance, using analytical criteria to do so.
Cloze test
a type of gap-filling task in which whole words have been
removed from a text and which candidates must replace.
Coherence
language which is coherent is well planned and clear, and
all the parts or ideas fit well so that they form a united
whole.
Collaborative task
the opportunity in the Speaking test for the candidates
to engage in a discussion and work together towards a
negotiated outcome of the task set.
Collocation
this term describes the likelihood of two words going
together, e.g. a good job, a wonderful occasion.
Comprehension questions
short questions testing information selection, linking and
sentence construction.
Content points
the points contained in the notes on the text in the B2 First
Paper 2 Part 1 compulsory question, which must be included
in the candidate’s letter or email.
Discourse
written or spoken communication.
Gap-filling item
any type of item which requires the candidate to insert
some written material – letters, numbers, single words,
phrases, sentences or paragraphs – into spaces in the text.
The response may be supplied by the candidate or selected
from a set of options.
Gist
the central theme or meaning of the text.
Impeding error
an error which prevents the reader from understanding the
word or phrase.
Input material
the text and notes, sometimes supported by illustrations or
diagrams, which candidates have to base their answers on
in the B2 First Paper 2 Part 1 compulsory question.
Interlocutor
the Speaking test examiner who conducts the test
and makes a global assessment of each candidate’s
performance.
Item
each testing point in a test which is given a separate mark
or marks.
Key
the correct answer to an item.
Key word
the word which must be used in the answer to an item in B2
First Paper 3 Part 4.
Lexical
adjective from lexis, meaning to do with vocabulary.
Long turn
the opportunity in the Speaking test for a candidate to
talk uninterrupted for a period of time, enabling them to
produce an extended piece of discourse.
Lozenge
the space on the mark sheet which candidates must fill in to
indicate their answer to a multiple-choice question.
Multiple choice
a task where candidates are given a set of several possible
answers of which only one is correct.
Multiple matching
a task in which a number of questions or sentence-
completion items, generally based on a reading text, are
set. The responses are provided in the form of a bank of
words or phrases, each of which can be used an unlimited
number of times.
Neutral style
a writing style, at B2 First level appropriate for
compositions, with no specific features of formality or
informality.
Opening and closing formulae
the expressions, either formal or informal, that are usually
used to open and close letters, e.g. Hi Maria … Write soon …,
or Dear Mr Dakari … Yours sincerely …
Options
the individual words in the set of possible answers for a
multiple-choice item.
Paraphrase
to give the meaning of something using different words.
Phrasal verb
a verb which takes on a new meaning when followed by a
certain preposition or adverb (e.g. get away, take up).
Pretesting
a stage in the development of test materials at which items
are tried out with representative samples from the target
population in order to determine their difficulty.
Prompt sentence
the complete sentence given as the opening or closing line
of a story.
Referencing
the technique of using ‘referents’.
Referent
a word or term that refers to another person, place, etc.
85

-- 87 of 90 --

Register
the tone of a piece of writing. The register should be
appropriate for the task and target reader, e.g. a letter of
application is written in a formal register.
Report layout
the way in which a report should be presented. At B2 First
level a report in Paper 2 Part 2 should be clearly organised
into paragraphs/sections and may include headings.
Stem word
the word at the end of each line in B2 First Paper 3 Part 3,
which is the basis for the word that has to be formed.
Target reader
the intended recipient of a piece of writing. It is important
to ensure that the effect of a written task on a target
reader is a positive one.
Task fulfilment
completing all elements of a B2 First Paper 2 task using a
range of appropriate and accurate language.
Acronyms
ALTE
The Association of Language Testers in Europe.
CEFR
Common European Framework of Reference.
EFL
English as a Foreign Language.
ESOL
English for Speakers of Other Languages.
86 	B2 First glossary

-- 88 of 90 --

Discover our range of
Official Cambridge Exam
Preparation materials
Find out more:
Six Practice Tests with answers
Experts together
	Our aim is to deliver the materials you tell us you need.
	Exclusive insights from test development and candidate
	performance guarantee expert content. The result is a
	unique Exam Journey in each course, ensuring every student
	is ready on exam day. From skills development to exam
	tasks, language discovery to real-world usage, we create
	better learning experiences, together.
2
C1 Advanced Trainer
2 
Six Practice Tests with answers
Advanced
Trainer
C1
Advanced
Trainer
C1
What’s inside?	
Sixfullpracticetestswithanswers:thefirsttwowith	
easy-to-follow,expertguidance.	
Thetwoguidedtestsinclude:	
- 94 Tips	
- 34 Adviceboxes
	 - Trainingactivities
	 - Exampractice.	
Examorientationandadvice.
	 OnlineeBook,audioandresources.
Howtouseit?	
Buildconfidenceineachexampaperbyfollowingthestep-by-stepguidance,tips
	andstrategiesintheTraining and Exam Practiceexercisesinthefirsttwotests.	
Developexamtechniquewiththefinalfourtests,applyingthelessons,
	techniquesandhintsacquiredinTests1and2.
Cambridge
English Scale
Cambridge English	
Qualification	
180-199
160-179
140-159
120-139
C1 Advanced
	B2 First for Schools
	B1 Preliminary for Schools
	A2 Key for Schools
9781009213813SIXPRACTICETESTSWITHANSWERSC
 M Y K
With eBook
➤
➤
➤
➤
➤
➤
FOR THE REVISED	
2020 EXAM
A2
AUTHENTIC PRACTICE TESTS
WITH ANSWERS
WITH AUDIO
KEY 1
British English	British English
S
t
a
r
t
e
r
S	S	S	S	Class Book
	with Digital Pack
Caroline Nixon &
	Michael Tomlinson
Kids Box
 New Generation
 
Class Book
 Starter 
Caroline Nixon & Michael Tomlinson
Official Cambridge Exam Preparation Courses
Official Cambridge Exam Practice
Courses that combine Official Cambridge Exam
Preparation with general English
cambridge.org/exams

-- 89 of 90 --

Find out more at
cambridge.org/english
We believe that English can unlock a
lifetime of experiences and, together
with teachers and our partners, we
help people to learn and confidently
prove their skills to the world.
This document was initially designed for print and as such
does not reach accessibility standard WCAG 2.1 in a number
of ways including missing text alternatives and missing
document structure.
If you need this document in a different format contact
BrandAdmin.C@cambridgeenglish.org telling us your name,
email address and requirements and we will respond within
15 working days.
© 2025 Cambridge University Press & Assessment
ENG/04485-56/V6/JUL25
All details are correct at the time of going to print.

-- 90 of 90 --

