First
D251/02
Writing
Time 1 hour 20 minutes
INSTRUCTIONS TO CANDIDATES
Do not open this question paper until you are told to do so.
Write your name, centre number and candidate number on your answer sheet if they are
not already there.
Read the instructions for each part of the paper carefully.
Answer the Part 1 question and one question from Part 2.
Write your answers on the answer sheet.
Write clearly in pen, not pencil. You may make alterations, but make sure your work is easy
to read.
You must complete the answer sheet within the time limit.
At the end of the test, hand in both this question paper and your answer sheet.
INFORMATION FOR CANDIDATES
Each question in this paper carries equal marks.
* Copyright © Cambridge University Press & Assessment 2022
500/2705/0 Cambridge English Level 1 Certificate in ESOL International

-- 1 of 4 --

2
Part 1
You must answer this question. Write your answer in 140 – 190 words in an appropriate style on the
separate answer sheet.
1 In your English class you have been talking about the environment. Now, your English
teacher has asked you to write an essay.
Write an essay using all the notes and giving reasons for your point of view.
Every country in the world has problems with pollution and damage to the environment.
Do you think these problems can be solved?
Notes
Write about:
1. transport
2. rivers and seas
3. ...................................... (your own idea)

-- 2 of 4 --

3
Part 2
Write an answer to one of the questions 2 – 4 in this part. Write your answer in 140 – 190 words in
an appropriate style on the separate answer sheet. Put the question number in the box at the top of
the answer sheet.
2 You see this announcement in your college English-language magazine.
Book reviews wanted
Have you read a book in which the main character behaved in a surprising way?
Write us a review of the book, explaining what the main character did and why it was surprising.
Tell us whether or not you would recommend this book to other people.
The best reviews will be published in the magazine.
Write your review.
3 You see this announcement on an English-language website.
Articles wanted
The most useful thing I have ever learned.
What is the most useful thing you have learned?
Who did you learn it from? Why is it useful?
Write us an article answering these questions.
We will publish the best articles on our website.
Write your article.
4 You have received this email from your English-speaking friend David.
From: David
Subject: touring holiday
Some college friends of mine are visiting your area soon for a week’s touring holiday. They would
like to travel around and learn about your local area and its history.
Can you tell me about some of the places they could visit? What’s the best way to travel around –
car, bike or coach?
Thanks,
David
Write your email.

-- 3 of 4 --

4
BLANK PAGE

-- 4 of 4 --

