First
Writing D251/02
Sample Test 2
Time 1 hour 20 minutes
INSTRUCTIONS TO CANDIDATES
Do not open this question paper until you are told to do so.
Write your name, centre number and candidate number on your answer sheet if they arenot
already there.
Read the instructions for each part of the paper carefully.
Answer the Part 1 question and one question from Part 2.
Write your answers on the answer sheet.
Write clearly in pen, not pencil. You may make alterations, but make sure your work is easyto
read.
You must complete the answer sheet within the time limit.
At the end of the test, hand in both this question paper and your answer sheet.
INFORMATION FOR CANDIDATES
Each question in this paper carries equal marks.
Copyright © Cambridge University Press & Assessment 2022
500/2705/0 Cambridge English Level 1 Certificate in ESOL International

-- 1 of 3 --

2
Part 1
You must answer this question. Write your answer in 140 – 190 words in an appropriate style on the
separate answer sheet.
1 In your English class you have been talking about the fashion industry. Now, your English
teacher has asked you to write an essay.
Write an essay using all the notes and giving reasons for your point of view.
Some people say the fashion industry has a bad effect on people’s lives.
Do you agree?
Notes
Write about:
1. whether people’s appearance is important
2. the price of clothes
3.(your own idea)

-- 2 of 3 --

3
A group of British teachers is going to visit your college for two days. The aim of their trip
is to learn about how technology is used in education in your country.
You have been asked to write a report for the group leader. Your report should:
• include information about how technology is used to teach different subjects
• recommend which lessons the teachers should watch to see technology being
used.
Articles wanted
MUSIC AND ME
When do you listen to music? How do you choose what to listen to at different times?
Write us an article answering these questions.
The best articles will be posted on our website.
Reviews wanted
Courses
Have you been on a course recently? Please tell us about it! It could be any type of
course, like a sports course, photography course or language course. What were the
classes like? What was the most interesting thing you learned? Would you recommend
the course to other people?
The best reviews will be published in next month’s magazine.
Part 2
Write an answer to one of the questions 2 – 4 in this part. Write your answer in 140 – 190 words in
an appropriate style on the separate answer sheet. Put the question number in the box at the top
of the answer sheet.
2
Write your report.
3 You see this announcement on an English-language website:
Write your article.
4 You see this announcement on an English-language website:
Write your review.

-- 3 of 3 --

