43	CAMBRIDGE ENGLISH: FIRST HANDBOOK FOR TEACHERS
WRITING | SAMPLE SCRIPTS WITH EXAMINER COMMENTS
Question 1
Candidate A
WRITING | SAMPLE PAPER 2
Examiner comments
Subscale 	Mark 	Commentary
Content 	5 	All content is relevant and the target reader is fully informed.
The essay discusses the role of the fashion industry and expresses some negative aspects (nowadays, the appearance of
the person is more important than the person itself) and also cost (the clothes’ price is extremely high).
The candidate also expresses their own idea, suggesting that the fashion industry has a lot of infl uence on people (say to
the society what to wear).
The candidate concludes the essay with an opinion, which sums up the main points made.
Communicative
Achievement
2 	Some of the conventions of essay writing are used appropriately. The register and tone are consistently formal and there
are some expressions which are appropriate for an essay (In today’s world; Some people claim; Furthermore; In my opinion).
There is also an introduction and a conclusion.
Although straightforward ideas are communicated, the target reader’s attention is not always held. For example, the fi nal
paragraph attempts to sum up the main points, but the ideas are not clearly expressed.
Organisation 	2 	The text is generally well organised and coherent. There is a clear structure to the text with an introduction, main body
and conclusion. Paragraphs are used for the development of ideas.
The text is connected using linking words and a limited number of cohesive devices, some of which are misused. More
use of pronouns would limit the repetition of key phrases.
Language 	2 	There is a range of everyday, topic-specifi c vocabulary, which is used appropriately (creates new types of clothes; Some
people claim; extremely high; is more important than).
Simple grammatical forms are used with a good degree of control, although the use of verbs in the 3rd person is not
consistent. There are attempts to express ideas using a range of grammatical forms, passives and modals for example,
but these are less successful (people, who can’t afford it, should not be in the society; the fashion industry guide the people to
be in a good appearance; It’s something which was created to help people what to wear).
Errors are noticeable but meaning can still be determined.
In today’s world, the fashion industry has a strong importance in people’s lives. The fashion industry say to
the society what to wear and creates new types of clothes all the time.
Some people claim that the fashion industry has a bad effect on people’s lives, they say that the fashion
industry creates clothes that the society has to wear. Furthermore, the clothes’ price is extremely high and
people, who can’t afford it, should not be in the society.
In the other hand, the fashion industry guide the people to be in a good appearance, because, nowadays, the
appearance of the person is more important than the person itself.
In my opinion, the fashion industry doesn’t has a bad influence on people’s lives. It’s something which was
created to help people what to wear.

-- 1 of 6 --

44 	CAMBRIDGE ENGLISH: FIRST HANDBOOK FOR TEACHERS
Question 1
Candidate B
WRITING | SAMPLE PAPER 2
WRITING | SAMPLE SCRIPTS WITH EXAMINER COMMENTS
Examiner comments
Subscale 	Mark 	Commentary
Content 	5 	All content is relevant to the task and the target reader is fully informed.
The candidate discusses the importance of appearance in terms of fashion (this industry design beautiful clothes and thanks
to that …) and concludes that We shouldn’t judge people for its appearance.
The negative aspect of the price of clothes is mentioned and an opinion given on how this affects people’s choice (forcing
people … to buy and pay a large amount of money to keep “beautiful”).
A third aspect states how choice for consumers is limited due to the fashion industry’s control over design and the
market (the fashion industry in some people opinion, controls the market of clothes).
Communicative
Achievement
3 	The conventions of essay writing are used appropriately. There is an introduction, topic paragraph and a conclusion. The
register is appropriate for the task, using generally neutral language to discuss both positive and negative aspects of the
question.
Straightforward ideas are communicated, using some appropriate language (in order to; According to them; the industry can
increase) to introduce the ideas, and to hold the target reader’s attention.
Organisation 	4 	The essay is well organised and coherent. There is a clear overall structure and the ideas are linked across sentences and
paragraphs using referencing, substitution and paraphrasing to avoid repetition.
There are a variety of appropriate linking words and cohesive devices (many people who; according to them; this industry;
thanks to that; On the other hand; In addition; In my opinion).
Language 	3 	A range of everyday, topic-specifi c vocabulary is used appropriately (to satisfy some people needs; good for society; controls
the market; forcing people) but some errors do occur with less common lexis and expressions (on today’s fashion).
A range of simple and some complex grammatical forms is used with a good degree of control (can increase the price of
clothes, forcing people who don’t want to be).
There are some repeated errors with prepositions and 3rd person verbs, but these do not impede communication.
Fashion industry is very a discussed subject nowadays: they create and design new clothes everyday in order
to satisfy some people needs.
There are many people who claim that the fashion industry is important and good for society. According to
them, this industry design beautiful clothes and thanks to that every person can wear shirts, trousers or any
acessory which is on today’s fashion.
On the other hand, the fashion industry in some people opinion, controls the market of clothes and because
of that they can’t wear what they want to. In addition, the industry can increase the price of clothes, forcing
people who don’t want to be “old-fashioned” to buy and pay a large amount of money to keep “beautiful”
In my opinion, we can’t let the fashion industry decide what we must or musn’t wear. We shouldn’t judge people
for its appearance, because that is not important. We must wear whatever we like, want and feel confortable
with.

-- 2 of 6 --

45	CAMBRIDGE ENGLISH: FIRST HANDBOOK FOR TEACHERS
Question 1
Candidate C
WRITING | SAMPLE PAPER 2
WRITING | SAMPLE SCRIPTS WITH EXAMINER COMMENTS
Examiner comments
Subscale 	Mark 	Commentary
Content 	5 	All content is relevant to the task and the target reader is fully informed.
The candidate presents a balanced argument, discussing their own idea fi rst that the fashion industry is important as it
provides jobs and income for a huge number of people.
The essay then discusses the negative aspect of the fashion industry in relation to appearance (the fashion industry is seen
as one which segregates people; people place too much importance on appearance).
Finally, the high cost of fashion is mentioned in relation to the price of clothes and it is suggested that money could be
better spent on social issues rather than on fashion.
Communicative
Achievement
5 	The conventions of essay writing are used effectively to hold the target reader’s attention. The register and tone are
consistently appropriate and there is a range of suitable expressions which introduce both positive and negative aspects
of the question, which are balanced throughout the essay.
Straightforward and more complex ideas are communicated, making links between the importance of fashion in
consumers’ lives and how the fashion industry affects people, communities and wider society (the fashion industry is
undeniably a source of profi t and income. It hires millions of people all over the world; it values a minority of people in detriment
to the majority).
Organisation 	5 	The essay is well organised and coherent. There is a clear overall structure and the ideas are linked effectively across
paragraphs and sentences through the use of paraphrasing, substitution, ellipsis and referencing (In this context; It hires;
such profi table business is also believed; Nevertheless; for those who; sadly true; such situation; not only are).
Organisational patterns are used to generally good effect, for example links are made between fashion and industry,
fashion and finance and fashion and society throughout the text, making clear connections between the separate
aspects.
Language 	5 	There is a range of vocabulary, including less common lexis which is used appropriately in most cases (is characterised by;
at a blink of an eye; paramount role; undeniably; the culture of a people; enhancing; neither impressed nor motivated; segregates;
isolating; in detriment to).
A range of simple and complex grammatical forms is used with control and fl exibility to express more complex ideas.
Although there are some errors, these mainly occur when more ambitious language is attempted and do not impede
communication.
The society we live today is characterised by technology in constant development, fast speed processes,
information travelling and getting to people at a blink of an eye and a complex web of social networking. In this
context, the fashion industry is becoming increasingly important and having a more and more paramount role in our
lives.
On one hand, the fashion industry is undeniably a source of profi t and income. It hires millions of people all over the
world and generates millions of dollars every year. Furthermore, such profitable business is also believed to be able
to spread and make known the culture of a people, encouraging and enhancing a better understanding of each other.
Nevertheless, for those who are neither impressed nor motivated by numbers and fi gures, the fashion industry is
seen as one which segregates people, isolating those who not fi t their laws and commands. It is stated that people
place too much importance on appearance and the material, world, sadly true, and the fashion industry just spurs
on such situation. Moreover, not only are the costs of fashion item unrealistically high, it is thought to be a money
better spent on more pressing issues, such as poverty and hunger.
I do believe that the fashion industry, as it is today, has a harmful effect, because it values a minority of people in
detriment to the majority. However, it has such a wide reach that, it put into a good use, it can save lives.

-- 3 of 6 --

46 	CAMBRIDGE ENGLISH: FIRST HANDBOOK FOR TEACHERS
Examiner comments
Subscale 	Mark 	Commentary
Content 	5 	All content is relevant and the target reader is fully informed.
The report gives information about which technology is used for teaching purposes around the school (interactive boards;
computers) and specifically in science (newly equipped chemical lab).
The report has a clear recommendation at the end and gives options about what would be good for the reader to see:
either going to see what the students have decided is important (computers and interactive boards) or what the reader has
a specific interest in (if you are interested in particular subjects you ought to see their specialised classrooms).
Communicative
Achievement
4 	The conventions of report writing are used effectively to hold the target reader’s attention. The register is neutral and
information is given in an objective tone, making good use of the passive voice (This report is intended; developments to be
seen; can be easily given). The format of the report is effective in using headings, sub-headings and a numbering system in
the second section to highlight important aspects.
Straightforward ideas are communicated.
Organisation 	4 	The text is well organised and coherent and the overall organisation of the report is effective in helping to communicate
the main points.
A variety of appropriate linking words are used (however; which; For instance).
Language 	3 	A range of everyday vocabulary is used appropriately and there is some good use of topic-specifi c vocabulary (technical
developments; conducted a survey; interactive boards; provide an opportunity; I would therefore recommend).
A range of simple and some more complex grammatical forms is used, particularly different passive structures. Some
errors occur when attempting more complex ideas (For most of the people who I asked for their reply were really important
computers).
However, the errors do not impede communication.
Question 2
Candidate D
Use of Technology in education
Introduction
This report is intended to inform how technology is used in common lessons and recommend the most interesting
technical developments to be seen. I conducted a survey among teachers and students in order to find out what is
prefered to be used by them.
Technology in different subjects
The majority of the people claimed that the best thing were computers and interactive boards. I was given these reasons:
1 They provide an oportunity to make the lessons more enjoyable
2 Everybody is able to find information on the internet whenever they want to
3 Computer presentations can be easily given
However, use of another technical developments vary among students and teachers depending on which subject they
focus on. For instance, people were interested in Science mentioned these points:
– newly equipped chemical lab with its recently purchased substances
– equipment suitable for teaching Physics (e.g. digital watches, laser)
Recommendations
For most of the people who I asked for their reply were really important computers and interactive boards in the
classrooms. I would therefore recommend seeing this. On the other hand, if you are interested in particular subjects you
ought to see their specialised classrooms with a variety of modern technical developments, too.
WRITING | SAMPLE PAPER 2
WRITING | SAMPLE SCRIPTS WITH EXAMINER COMMENTS

-- 4 of 6 --

47	CAMBRIDGE ENGLISH: FIRST HANDBOOK FOR TEACHERS
Examiner comments
Subscale 	Mark 	Commentary
Content 	4 	All content is relevant. The article discusses music, describes when the writer listens to music, and explains personal
musical preferences.
However, the second question is not fully addressed. We learn about the music the writer likes but not about how certain
music is chosen at different times. The writer does mention When the bus is taking me to school I listen to the music so I
could wake up but doesn’t say what sort of music it is.
This second point is not fully developed but the target reader is on the whole informed about this aspect.
Communicative
Achievement
3 	The article generally follows the conventions of the task. The subject is personal to the writer and relevant examples are
given from personal experience. The article is written in a tone that is appropriate for a general audience and holds the
reader’s attention.
Straightforward ideas are communicated (I love to listen to; I can’t listen to; Everybody has his own taste for music) despite
the relatively simple language used.
Organisation 	2 	The article is generally well organised and coherent at sentence level. The text is separated into paragraphs and basic
linking words are used to connect the ideas within sentences (and; When; But; it) but there are fewer cohesive devices
used to connect ideas across the whole text.
When presenting musical preferences, the information is presented in a list format, rather than comparing or contrasting
different styles, with cohesive devices to show the relationship between the writer and the music described.
Language 	2 	Everyday vocabulary is used appropriately and there is a range of vocabulary connected with musical styles (classical;
jazz; rock; hip-hop; dubstep; pop, Serbian folk; rap; techno; K-pop).
Simple grammatical forms are used with a good degree of control, but there is a lack of range with the present tense
being most frequently used.
Errors do not impede communication.
Question 3
Candidate E
I always listen to music, wherever I go I have my headphones on my ears. Listening to what I like satisfy’s me
and makes me calm all the time. When the bus is taking me to school I listen to the music so I could wake up.
I love to listen to classical music, jazz, rock, hip-hop, dubstep, pop music. But I can’t listen to Serbian folk, any
rap, techno or K-pop music. It just anoy’s me. Of all the songs I can listen, I adore pop and dubstep the most.
I’m glad that my parents listened to rock and ninetees serbian songs which I like to listen sometimes.
Everybody has his own taste for music, somebody likes rock, somebody likes rap or something else, and that’s
ok. I’m proud of myself that I’m listening to what I’m listening.
WRITING | SAMPLE PAPER 2
WRITING | SAMPLE SCRIPTS WITH EXAMINER COMMENTS

-- 5 of 6 --

48 	CAMBRIDGE ENGLISH: FIRST HANDBOOK FOR TEACHERS
WRITING | SAMPLE SCRIPTS WITH EXAMINER COMMENTS
Examiner comments
Subscale 	Mark 	Commentary
Content 	5 	All content is relevant and the target reader is fully informed.
The candidate gives details about a language course that they attended. They describe the classes and the teacher (The
classes were very funny. Andrea is a nice person).
The most interesting thing learned on the course is addressed (The most interesting thing that I learned was how to prepare
a theater play) along with descriptions of the activities involved.
Finally a positive, personal recommendation is given.
Communicative
Achievement
3 	The conventions of review writing are evident and hold the reader’s attention. The writer expresses opinions, describes
the course and makes a concluding recommendation. The register in which the review is written is informal and personal
rather than analytical and objective, but is consistent throughout. The style is suitable for a school website.
Straightforward ideas are communicated about the writer’s personal experiences of the course.
Organisation 	4 	The text is well organised and coherent. The paragraphs are used well to develop the main points in the question, each
one focusing on a certain aspect.
Cohesive devices such as referencing and pronouns are used to link the information across sentences without too much
repetition (he gave us a song in which; After that we did differents exercise; the majority of them …).
There are some errors with punctuation, but this generally occurs when ideas are being connected across sentences or
when two clauses are being joined (For instance; we interpreted it).
Language 	3 	Everyday vocabulary is used appropriately with some less common expressions attempted, particularly in the 3rd
paragraph (we wrote a play based on a book; we interpreted it; unforgetable experience).
A range of simple and complex grammatical forms is used with a good degree of control. Past and present tenses are
controlled and there is a range of sentence structures.
There are errors with plurals and some prepositions (we listened the song; we did differents exercise; we spoke about
restaurant), but these errors do not impede communication.
Question 4
Candidate F
The course I have been recently is a language course. In september I went to a Italian course for improving my
level of Italian, with a native teacher, Andrea.
The classes were very funny. Everyday when we arrived to the class he gave us a song in which there were gaps
which we had to filling them while we listened the song. After that we did differents exercise, the majority of
them for improving our vocabulary. For instance we spoke about restaurant, shops, cinema and so on.
The most interesting thing that I learned was how to prepare a theater play, and it was fantastic. During a
week we wrote a play based on a book, and the last day of the week we interpreted it. Everyone had a different
paper on it. For me it was an unforgetable experience, because I spent a wonderful time doing it and I learned a
lot of idioms.
I would recommend this course because Andrea is a nice person who teach you with interesting exercise.
Learning Italian isn’t boring with him.
WRITING | SAMPLE PAPER 2

-- 6 of 6 --

